Correction: In an earlier version of the story, we had wrongly concluded that Gajendra Chauhan did not tweet in support of Shringi Yadav. However, it has been brought to our notice that Chauhan did tweet in support of Yadav, the man accused of thrashing a Muslim boy for allegedly drinking water at a temple in Ghaziabad. The story has been modified accordingly.)

advertisement

The name Shringi Yadav has popped up on social media after a video of him assaulting a minor Muslim boy in Ghaziabad went viral. It was alleged that Yadav thrashed the boy for drinking water at a temple. Yadav and his associate Shivananda were arrested soon after the incident.

Social media support has poured in for the young boy. However, there are also people who chose to stand with Yadav with the hashtag “IStandWithShringiYadav” trending on Twitter. And now, some Facebook users are claiming that 'Mahabharat' fame actor and former Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) Chairman Gajendra Chauhan has also tweeted in support of the accused.

A screenshot of what looks like a tweet made by Chauhan is circulating, the text of which reads, "I am with Shringi Yadav. Nation with a Nationalist. #IStandWithShringiYadav”.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here and here.

Soon, confusion spread on social media over whether Chauhan actually made the tweet or not. The actor even confirmed to us that he did not make the tweet. However, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the tweet was indeed made from Chauhan's official Twitter account and later deleted. The archived version of the deleted tweet can be seen here.

In an earlier version of the story, we had said Chauhan did not tweet in support of Shringi Yadav. The story has been corrected after Alt News pointed this out in an article.

Chauhan has a verified Twitter account with the handle name "@Gajjusay". AFWA had contacted him to confirm about the viral post. "Since I stay away from any communal issue, I have not reacted anywhere regarding this incident. This is a fake post; I have not tweeted anything like that," he had told us, of which we have a recording.

But AFWA later found that Chauhan or his team had indeed tweeted in support of Shringi Yadav, the man accused of assaulting a Muslim boy in Ghaziabad for allegedly drinking water at a temple. The tweet, from Chauhan's official Twitter handle, was later deleted.