As the nation enters the fourth phase of lockdown, the state governments have eased some of the restrictions after reviewing the situation. This includes the opening of the market in selective areas also. Meanwhile, a video of an overcrowded market is getting viral on social media. It is being claimed that the video is from the Madian market in Hyderabad where people are shopping for Eid, violating lockdown norms.

advertisement Today Madina market in Hyderabad pic.twitter.com/Exni0G7pe5 — Ajayraj S Muthaliya (@ajayrajmuthliya) May 20, 2020

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is not from Hyderabad, India, but Faisalabad in Pakistan where recently some relaxation in the lockdown was announced.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

A Twitter user "Ajayraj S Muthaliya" shared the video with the caption: "Today Madina market in Hyderabad"

AFWA probe

On reverse search one of the frames of the viral video, we found that the video was shared on Twitter by Pakistani Journalist Muhammad Lila from his verified handle where he claimed that the video is from Pakistan.

While the rest of the world is hunkering down, this is one scene in Pakistan.



Stores opening up, with a mad rush to stock up ahead of Eid.



It's not happening everywhere, but enough to make you pic.twitter.com/yn003WnfWw — Muhammad Lila (@MuhammadLila) May 20, 2020

We also found a tweet by a Pakistani businessman Usama Qureshi, where he claimed that the video is from Faisalabad in Pakistan.

Scene from a market in Faisalabad. pic.twitter.com/iaPqfNyId9 — Usama Qureshi (@UsamaQureshy) May 18, 2020

We ran a search on You Tube and found the same video uploaded on May 18 with the caption: "New Anarkali Faisalabad 18 May k taaza manazir".

Several states have issued fresh guidelines for lockdown 4.0 in India which have been extended till May 31. The states have given more relaxations by opening up businesses in non-contaminated zones which has allowed people to shop for essentials during a limited time period.

It is clear that the viral video is not from India but the New Anarkali market Faisalabad, Pakistan.