Is the CPI(M) feeling too tizzy and desperate that to save its last bastion in Kerala their leaders are now towing the Hindutva line?

Social media is abuzz with recent pictures of CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury holding an earthen pot. The BJP and RSS supporters are accusing that Yechury is attempting to woo Hindu voters calling it CPI(M)'s submission before "the rising Hindu civilisation".

advertisement

BJP ideologue S Gurumurthy re-tweeted the picture with a sarcastic question

While CPI(M) has offered no comments so far, party sources have trashed the allegations.

India Today's fact check team tried to find out the reality behind the pictures.

Our queries to Sitaram Yechury went unanswered. According to the CPI(M) office in Hyderabad and Delhi, the party general secretary Sitaram Yechury along with other party leaders was in Hyderabad on July 15 to attend the general meeting of Bahujan Left Front (BLF), a new political front of 28 parties.

He was given a grand welcome on his arrival at the Hyderabad airport and also at the Sundarayya Vignana Kendra, the meeting venue.

The team also spoke to the photographer of Indo-Asian News service (IANS) who clicked these pictures.

According to him, since it was the beginning of Bonalu Hindu festival month some BLF women workers welcomed Yechury in a traditional way by placing the earthen pot on his head.

Bonalu is a Hindu Festival in which Goddess Mahakali is worshiped. As part of the Bonalu ritual, women carry rice cooked with milk and jaggery in earthen/brass pots on their heads while on their way to offer it to the deity.

According to eyewitness and local photographers, on the request of the women, Yechury kept the flower pot on his head. He didn't participate in any Bonalu celebration.

Accusing the BJP and RSS of trying to blow the incident out of proportion, CPI(M) leader Atul Anjan told India Today, "RSS from the very beginning have been accusing that the communists are anti religion. This is an attempt to malign us, it's a campaign by them because they were not involved in freedom struggle movement."

It is clear that these pictures are real and Sitaram Yechury carried the earthen pots on his head, but he was present in Hyderabad to attend a political programme and wasn't attending any religious ceremony.