Elon Musk, the world's richest person, sold around 5 billion dollars of his shares in Tesla days after holding a Twitter poll on whether he should sell 10 per cent of his shares in the electric vehicle firm.

In the backdrop of these developments, a long statement allegedly given by Musk is going viral on Internet, in which he apparently explains why his daughter "can't marry a poor man". The statement includes some generic finance-related quotes such as "Wealth is the ability to create wealth", "90% of lottery millionaires become poor again after 5 years" and "Wealth is a state of mind".

advertisement

What's amusing is that the same message is viral in the name of Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates as well.

Several little-known websites such as "Newsbreak", "NGGossips" and "GBETU TV" have also carried the viral statement as a quote by Gates.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that neither Musk nor Gates have given such a statement. Financial quotes borrowed from various videos and articles have been stitched together and falsely attributed to them.

Searching the Internet, we did not find any mainstream news report that has attributed the viral statement to Musk or Gates. Had they given such a statement, it would have definitely been covered by the media.

Quotes plucked from various sources

The generic quotes used in the article have been used in many articles and videos. But nowhere have they been attributed to Musk or Gates.

In fact, Forbes has attributed the quote "Wealth is a state of mind" to British poet Edward Young.

Another excerpt from the viral post is, "90% of lottery millionaires become poor again after 5 years". We found a similar statement saying "about 70 per cent of people who win a lottery or receive a large windfall go bankrupt within a few years" in a report by "The Washington Post". Here, the data has been attributed to the United States-based National Endowment for Financial Education.

AFWA contacted a spokesperson from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation who said the viral statement is not a quote by Gates.

Musk, Gates and their children

Musk has no girls. He has triplets and twins with his first wife Justine Wilson. All five of them, Griffin, Xavier, Damian, Saxon and Kai, are boys.

Last year, he and his then girlfriend Grimes welcomed a baby boy whom they named X Æ A-Xii. Musk's first child Nevada Alexander had died in 2002 due to a sudden infant death syndrome.

In July this year, Musk had expressed hope that his next baby would be a girl.

Gates, on the other hand, has two daughters (Jennifer and Phoebe) and one son (Rory). Jenifer recently got married to 30-year-old equestrian Nayel Nassar.