On 2nd of May clashes between two communal groups took place in the district of Rajasthan, Jodhpur for hoisting an Islamic flag at the Jalori gate circle before Eid.

Meanwhile, a picture is getting viral on all the news reports and also on various social media platforms of a policeman. In that video, a policeman is seen tying a handkerchief on his wounded forehead.

People all over the internet are claiming the wound of a policeman to be fake.

A Facebook user wrote, “This video is becoming increasingly viral on social media. The reality of the policeman who got hurt was captured in the video, all the riots are happening due to planning. Now the question arises till it is possible to investigate? Will there be strict action for spreading lies on this? The newspaper also seems to be completely involved in this fraud.”(Translates Hindi)

DDN News too shared the same post on their page with the same caption.

Twitter Users also shared the same post with similar captions on it.

Reality of the policeman who claimed to be injured in the #Jodhpur Violence on #Eid,reality captured in this video,all Violence happening against Muslims in #India are in a planned way.

Now,the question is, in these circumstances can we expect fair investigation by the same cops? pic.twitter.com/f8OXVS18Vs — Mohd Amir Mintoee (@MAmintoee) May 5, 2022

Fact Check:

We reverse searched the video to know about its authenticity the video. That very video was posted by the official Twitter handle of Jodhpur Police.

“The truth of the misleading news regarding the injury of ASI Shri Dhannaram in the Jalori Gate incident… In the incident, there was a head injury of the ASI, due to which there was blood on the hand and handkerchief. After the incident, the injured ASI was made medical and FIR was registered in the police station Sardarpura.” Reads the Caption. (Translates Hindi)

The police also urged people to avoid fake news.

Conclusion:

Therefore, the video is getting viral with misleding claims.

Claim Review: a policeman is seen tying a handkerchief on his wounded forehead.

Claimed by: social media users

Fact Check: Misleading.