Amid nationwide uproar over the Hathras incident, a civil rights NGO approached the Supreme Court to transfer the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).

While the NGO is demanding that proper witness protection to be accorded in the case, a video which shows some armed policemen searching a house and collecting documents is viral on the internet.

It is said that this scene is from the house of the Hathras victim. The Hindi caption to one such video translates to, "It is shameful to see the police brutality at the Hathras victim's house."

advertisement

Similar claims are also viral in the Telugu language, saying it purportedly shows Uttar Pradesh police taking away important documents of the Hathras victim from her house.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. The video is from Unnao in Uttar Pradesh.

In the video, a man can be heard saying how the police barged into their house and took away important documents.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of the InVid tool and appropriate keywords, we found that the video was uploaded on Twitter on October 1, 2020, with a claim that the incident took place in Unnao.

The Hindi caption to the tweet translates to, "In Unnao, a family had to pay the price for opposing the setting up of the police post on their land. Because of their opposition, the police barged into their house and took away important documents. This is an incident from the Chaklavanshi town of Mankhi police station area."

Unnao police replied to this tweet with Additional Superintendent of Police Vinod Kumar Pandey's statement. Pandey confirmed that the incident happened at Unnao, a complaint has been registered and an investigation is going on in the matter.

AFWA also reached out to India Today's Unnao correspondent who confirmed that the incident happened on September 30, 2020, in Unnao at the house of a woman named Sundhara.

We also contacted the office of Unnao SP Anand Kulkarni. The spokesperson to the SP's office told AFWA that there is an ongoing land fight between the family and the Gram Panchayat.

SI Swadesh Yadav of Mankhi Police station visited the spot for settling the issue. However, the visit led to a clash between the police officers and the family. A case has been registered against both the parties, clarified the spokesperson.

We also found a few news reports confirming that the incident took place in Unnao and not Hathras.

According to a report by Patrika, the family was quoted saying the incident happened because the Mankhi police wanted to build a post on their land. The family obtained a stay order against it which irked the police leading to a scuffle.

advertisement

Patrika Uttar Pradesh has also uploaded the viral video on their YouTube channel along with the version of the family and the police team.

Also, no other credible sources have reported about Uttar Pradesh police barging in the house of Hathras victim and taking away important documents.

Hence it is clear that the viral video is from Unnao district in Uttar Pradesh and not related to the Hathras incident.