An image circulating on social media claims that the Supreme court has approved a permanent logo for all the teachers in India. It says that now all teachers can put this logo on their vehicles as doctors and lawyers do.

The logo shows two hands protecting a book with a sun with an inscription written as “A Nation Builder”. This logo is supposed to be an identification mark for teachers.

Fact Crescendo has received several messages on our Fact-line number 9049053770 for verification.

Congratulations to all teachers, find this new approved Logo for teachers like ant other logos of Doctors or Lawyers. Ptoudly you can stick this logo on your vehicles with a caption of a nation builder. Be proud to be a teacher as usual. pic.twitter.com/1rg4oDiBRV — Deepak Khanduri (@DeepakK91055048) February 19, 2020

Same message had also gone viral in 2017.

Supreme Court has approved this logo for teachers to stick on their vehicles like doctors and advocates ! #congratulations @ShashiTharoor pic.twitter.com/32UsiZBbyi — Jayasree Vijayan (@JayasreeVijayan) October 6, 2017

FACT CHECK

A Google keyword search yielded no relevant news articles about such Supreme Court decision.

We also could not find any cases related to Teachers logo from 2017 to 2021 on the official website of the Supreme Court of India.

Fact Crescendo contacted Atul Kumar Tiwari from PIB (PMO) who that the viral message is fake.

Last month, PIB had also put out a tweet debunking the viral message

“No such directive has been issued by the Supreme Court. People should refrain from forwarding such false messages,” reads the tweet.

A post claiming that the Supreme court has approved a logo for teachers to put on their vehicles is in circulation.#PIBFactCheck



▶️This claim is #Fake.



▶️No such directive has been issued by the Supreme court.



▶️Refrain from forwarding such false messages. pic.twitter.com/3QYzYI3eQ8 — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) September 15, 2021

Where did the logo come from?

Google reverse image search led us to a Facebook page named “Teacher logo” with the same logo on their display image.

On the page, we found an image posted in 2018 which shows few men standing alongside each other holding the logo card in their hands. It was taken during a “Proud to be a Teacher” campaign organized by Principal Rajesh Khanna.

Conclusion-

Supreme Court has not approved any logo for the teachers which they can put on their vehicles. This is a fake message. Fact Crescendo rate it as FALSE.