A video of two army dogs mauling a man after being attacked repeatedly with a stone-like object has gone viral on social media. Many users claimed that stone pelters in Kashmir got a lesson of their lives’ when they hit the army dogs.

A Twitter user named Theju@Theju’ has shared the video with the caption, A stone pelting Kashmiri Muslim hit two army dogs. Since the dogs didn’t wait for orders from the government, they did what they thought was right! Till the time of filing this story, about 64,000 people had already watched the video.

advertisement A stone pelting Kashmiri muslim hit two army dogs. Since the dogs didn't wait for orders from the government, they did what they thought was right! pic.twitter.com/R1ooNudAX6 Theju@Theju (@kgtheaju) May 31, 2019





India Today’s Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video was uploaded six years back. The incident took place in Morocco and not Kashmir as claimed.

In the viral video, one can see the top shot of a street where a man in a yellow jacket is seen walking across a road with his two dogs. All of a sudden, another man in bright red pants and a t-shirt, along with two other men, start hitting the dogs repeatedly with a stone-like object. The dogs then maul the attacker until he is rescued by their owner.

Apart from Twitter, the video has been shared by many Facebook pages.

The video was earlier debunked by SMHoaxSlayer in April 2017.

We also found that in the past, the same video had been uploaded on various platforms such as Daily Motion claiming that the incident took place four years ago in Morocco’s Casablanca on April 22, 2013.

YouTube channel Boukili Lofts and Reddi t also posted the same video five years ago. Another blog on the same incident was posted on Wall Street Insanity the same year.

Though we could not find the original source of the incident, but with all the references given above, it can be clearly said that the incident did not take place in Kashmir.

Also read: Fact Check: The truth behind a Tokyo restaurant serving human meat

Also read: Fact Check: No, Modi hasn't announced countywide prohibition order

ALSO WATCH| Fact Check: Was this Muslim man harassed in India?