A rather funny video of Congress president Rahul Gandhi and his Malayali translator PJ Kurien has gone viral on social media. On April 16, Rahul Gandhi went on an election campaign to Pathanamthitta district in Kerala. Kurien, a veteran Congress leader, accompanied him to translate his speech in the local language, after which all hell broke loose on social media.

The two-minute video went viral on all social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp. Many from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) didn't miss the opportunity to share the video.

advertisement If you haven’t laugh since morning then watch this video and make your day..



Ultimate comedy. pic.twitter.com/5iBRiIWifV Chowkidar Shashi (@iShashiShekhar) April 16, 2019

AFWA found that the viral video has been skilfully edited to make it look funnier. To amplify the fun quotient, four different portions from the 37-minute long original speech have been stitched together in a two-minute clip. The soundtrack of laughter has been laid over the video and some animations have also been added.

At one point in the video, Rahul Gandhi referring to Modi says, "Don't make me prime minister, he says; make me the chowkidar". Then, he whispers the same to his translator. At this point, the sound of crackling laughter was added in the clip.

Rahul Gandhi went on to say: "He took votes from the people of India and became the chowkidar of Mr Anil Ambani." The Congress president had to repeat it to the translator, who appeared clueless. Funny sound effects and little animations were used to make it seem humorous.

There are goof-ups in the original video too. What Rahul Gandhi said was lost in translation by Kurien. He often completely changed the meaning of what the Congress president was saying. At times, he failed to hear properly and Rahul had to repeat himself more than once.

Small portions from his public address were taken out and compiled in a different order to make it funnier.

Around 11 minutes 15 seconds into the original video, Rahul Gandhi says, "We are going to carry out a surgical strike on poverty". While in the edited viral video, it has been used at the end of the clip.

Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also shared the video on Twitter saying, "Dekho, hans na dena [Look, don't laugh])

Leaders often struggle when they have to address public who don't speak their language. But in this case, Congress was literally left at a loss for words.