Spread the truth:

A video is viral in claiming IAF Pilot Abhinandan’s wife is giving out a message.

The woman in the video is saying –

“Hello everyone, I am the wife of an army officer. On behalf of the families of all the armed forces, I request my fellow Indians, especially the political leaders, the political leaders not to politicize the sacrifice of our soldiers. It takes so much to be a soldier. And just imagine the kind of tension, the kind of pain the family of Abhinandan is going through right now. So please till the time the tension is eased at Indo-Pak border stop your political rallies and don’t you dare, I repeat, don’t you dare snatch away the credit of our soldiers. So please stop counting your tickets and stop doing your politics. You have enough times to play your politics but not at this time and not at the cost of our soldiers’ sacrifice. It is my humble request to all political leaders, especially the BJP political leaders”

The video is tweeted by a pro Congress verified handle Yuva Desh

“अभिनंदन की पत्नी का संदेश कि सैनिकों के बलिदान पर बीजेपी न करे राजनीति। # Abhinanadan”

It is also posted by a Congress/NSUI volunteer which has been shared more than 14000 times

“विंग कमांडर अभिनंदन जी की पत्नी का संदेश कि सैनिकों के बलिदान पर बीजेपी न करे राजनीति।”

It has also been tweeted by Rajesh, from Samajwadi Party

भाजपाईयों तथा मोदी आप भी सुनिए ये पायलट अभिनंदन जी की पत्नी कुछ सलाह दे रहीं हैं? थोड़ी सी भी शर्म बची हो तो शहीदों के फोटो लगाकर वोट मांगना बंद करों?

वैसे बता दें कि इन्हें देशद्रोही मत बोलना क्योंकि ये खुद एक आर्मी अफसर हैं pic.twitter.com/Mh1mFVA8NB — Rajesh SP (@MLArajeshSP) February 28, 2019

Truth:

DNA published a photo of Abhinandan’s wife named Tanvi MarwahaIt claimed

“Abhinandan’s wife, Tanvi Marwaha, is also a retired squadron leader and they have a young son. She retired as a helicopter pilot. Tanvi is believed to be his colleague in Indian Air Force from 2004 batch.”

So you can see the difference in the face from the woman in the video (Left) and Tanvi Marwaha, Abhinandan’s Wife (Right)

Further, if you listen to the video, she started with “Hello everyone, I am the wife of an army officer. “ not IAF Pilot.

After few seconds she also said “And just imagine the kind of tension, the kind of pain the family of Abhinandan is going through right now.”

So she said it as a Third Person’s voice, i.e. not the part of the family.

This clears the woman in the video is not IAF Pilot Abhinandan’s wife.

More Fakes

Pakistani –

Related