The Padma awards this year have generated much curiosity and controversy alike. While the tales of many unsung heroes have come to the fore, the Padma Shri to actor Kangana Ranaut did not go down well with a section of people, especially after her remarks that India’s independence in 1947 was a “bheekh” and the country attained real freedom in 2014 the year Narendra Modi stormed to power.

advertisement

Soon after, a postcard in Bengali started going viral on social media with the claim that while much hue and cry is being raised over the Padma Shri to Kangana, the Congress government had awarded Padma Shri to one Sobha Singh, who had testified against Bhagat Singh in court.

The text on the postcard translates to, “The BJP government is being attacked for awarding Padma Shri to Kangana Ranaut. But do you know the Congress government had awarded Padma Shri to Sobha Singh, who had testified against Bhagat Singh and was instrumental in sending him to the gallows?”

“The independence in 1947 had come after pre-planned killings of revolutionaries such as Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Bhagat Singh. Had they been alive, there would’ve been no sign of the Gandhi-Nehru dynasty. Therefore, these people joined hands with the British to kill the real freedom fighters,” the postcard further says.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the Sobha Singh who reportedly gave testimony against Bhagat Singh was not awarded Padma Shri. A painter named Sobha Singh was awarded Padma Shri in 1983. Netizens confused both persons to be one and the same.

Padma Shri Sobha Singh

We first went through the complete list of Padma awardees. Searching “Sobha Singh” on the official website, we found only one result. This person was an artist who was awarded Padma Shri in 1983. Though his picture was not uploaded on the website, it said he was from Haryana.

We then searched the Internet for Sobha Singh the artist and came across a website in his name. We found several pictures of him in the gallery, including the one where he’s seen receiving the Padma Shri.

The website further says Sobha Singh died in 1986, three years after receiving the award. In 2001, a postal stamp was issued in his honour. Sobha Singh specialised in painting Sikh gurus and other spiritual illustrations. The Punjab government had also honoured him with a D.Litt award.

Who testified against Bhagat Singh?

We reverse-searched the picture in the viral postcard to find the person’s identity. This took us to the website of a school, whose board of directors had the said person. Incidentally, this person too was named Sobha Singh.

So was it this man who’d testified against Bhagat Singh? Using relevant keywords, we came across an article in “Outlook”, titled, “How Bhagat Singh Was Sentenced Based On The Testimony Of Kushwant Singh’s Father Sobha Singh”.

With this, two things got clear that this Sobha Singh was the father of famous author and Padma Vibhushan awardee late Khushwant Singh, and that he was somewhat linked to Bhagat Singh.

The “Outlook” article referred to the book “The Trial of Bhagat Singh”, written by Supreme Court lawyer and political commentator Abdul Ghafoor Noorani, to say that Sobha Singh had testified before the British court that he saw Bhagat Singh throwing bombs in the Central Legislative Assembly.

We then went through Noorani’s book, wherein in page number 32, it clearly says, “Sir Sobha Singh gave evidence for the prosecution in the court.”

advertisement

The man who ‘owned half of Delhi’

To know more about Khushwant Singh’s father Sobha Singh, we contacted retired IAS officer and historian Jawhar Sircar. He told AFWA, “Sobha Singh was a contractor entrusted by the British to build modern Delhi. He’d also built Sujan Singh Park (which housed British military officers during WWII and where Khushwant Singh spent his last days). When the British shifted the capital of undivided India, Sobha Singh got contracts for most grand structures in Lutyens’ Delhi.”

Searching the Internet further, we came to know that Sobha Singh contributed to important installations such as South Block (which houses PMO), Connaught Place, India Gate, National Museum and others. He was so influential that he was often called the “owner of half of Delhi”. He died in 1978.

Therefore, it is clear that the Sobha Singh whose picture is used in the viral post was not awarded Padma Shri. And the Sobha Singh who was awarded Padma Shri had no connection with Bhagat Singh.





(Inputs by Riddhish Dutta in Kolkata)