A social media post is going viral with the claim that Article 30 of the Indian Constitution allows madrasas to teach Quran but Article 30(A) says that Bhagavad Gita cannot be read in schools. The post gives the impression that the Constitution is biased on the teaching of religious text.

India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that there is no Article 30(A) in the Constitution of India that prevents from reading Gita as claimed.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The post is viral on both Facebook and Twitter with the text that reads: "Article 30: - Quran can be taught in the madrasas! Article 30(A): - Geeta can not be read in schools! Credit goes to Jawaharlal Nehru ..."

To verify the claim, we checked the article in the Constitution and found that Article 30(A) does not even exist. The sub-clause to Article 30 is Article 30(1A).

What is Article 30?

Article 30 of the India Constitution states the right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions.

Article 30(1) says that all minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.

Article 30(1A) deals with the fixation of the amount for acquisition of property of any educational institution established by minority groups.

Article 30(2) states that the government should not discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language, while giving aid.

What does expert say?

India Today got in touch with former secretary-general of Lok Sabha PDT Achary, who told us that there is no mention about any religious text in the Constitution. Our Constitution is secular and does not contain any provisions which suggest that the Quran can be taught in madrasas and Gita cannot be read in schools.

It is clear that no provision under Article 30 talks about teaching Bhagavad Gita or the Quran in schools.