The Republic Day violence in Delhi by protesting farmers has been the talking point on and off social media. Authorities have been cracking down on rioters who broke barricades, damaged vehicles and attacked policemen after some farmers' unions diverted from the routes designated for their tractor rally.

Meanwhile, a picture of Dr Kafeel Khan on a tractor is being widely circulated on social media with the claim that he was part of the January 26 tractor rally in Delhi. Khan was an accused in the Gorakhpur infant deaths case.

advertisement

A Facebook page named "B.J.P West Bengal" had posted the picture with a caption in Bengali that translates to, "He is Dr Kafeel Khan, known for the Uttar Pradesh infant deaths case. He went to the farmers' protest in Delhi on a tractor. It seems he is also a farmer apart from being a doctor."

This is not the official Facebook page of Bengal BJP. The archived version of the viral post can be seen here.

The verified Twitter handle of filmmaker Ashoke Pandit also shared the picture and wrote a caption in Hindi which translates to, "Meet Kafeel Khan, the oxygen thief from Gorakhpur. Today, he is spreading violence in Delhi as a farmer."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the picture to be false. This is a screenshot from a video Khan had posted on social media, where he was giving tutorials on basic mechanisms of a tractor. On January 26, Khan was in Jaipur participating in a Republic Day programme. He did not visit Delhi in the last one month.

AFWA investigation

Using a combination of InVID and reverse image search, AFWA found that the picture circulated on social media is actually a screenshot from a video Khan had posted on his Twitter handle and YouTube channel.

The video where he was giving tutorials on the basic mechanism of a tractor was posted by Khan on January 26 morning. The background of the video suggests that it was shot in a village. No other tractor could be seen in the background.

To further confirm the incident, we contacted Khan directly. The pediatrician said he is presently in Jaipur and has not visited Delhi in the last one month. "The video was shot in Langareeyawas in Jaipur district," he said.

Khan said the video was shot on January 25, a day before the tractor rally. And on January 26, he was in Shaheen Institution at Jhotwara in Jaipur hoisting the Tricolour. In fact, he'd retweeted two videos on his Twitter handle on January 26, where he was seen observing Republic Day.

advertisement

AFWA then contacted Shoyeb Khan, the principal of Shaheen Institution, who acknowledged that Khan was in his school on January 26. Hence, it is proved that Khan was not part of the tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day.

(With inputs from Arpit Basu in New Delhi)