Cricketer Virat Kohli and his actor wife Anushka Sharma have consciously kept their daughter Vamika's identity under the wraps. As revealed by Virat during an ‘Ask me anything session’ , the couple has decided not to expose Vamika to social media before she herself has an understanding of what the platform is.

But, if some netizens are to be believed, the first-ever glimpse of Vamika’s face has now been revealed. Two images - allegedly showing Virat Kohli with Vamika - are doing rounds on social media. In both these images, the face of the baby girl is clearly visible.

advertisement

A Twitter user shared with the caption, “Finally, #ViratKohli 's daughter vamika Kohli face revealed”

The archived version of this post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image shows Virat Kohli’s lookalike Susobhan Lahiri, a resident of Ranaghat in Bengal. The baby girl seen with him in the pictures is his niece Ivanshi Bhattacharya. Susobhan himself confirmed this to India Today.

AFWA probe

Using a reverse search, we found one of the two viral pictures on a meme website. Here, the image has been shared as the Facebook post of a person named ‘Susobhan Lahiri’.

This clue led us to the Facebook page of Susobhan Lahiri from West Bengal who resembles cricketer Virat Kohli to a certain extent.

Susobhan had shared one of the viral pictures on May 4, 2021 with the caption, “Mama Bhat”. This gave us a hint that the little girl seen in the pictures could be his niece, as ‘mama’ in Hindi as well as Bengali means maternal uncle.

He had included the second image in a collage of some family photographs which he posted on November 16, 2020.

We spoke to Susobhan who told us that the viral images indeed show him with the daughter of his older sister.

“I have now become habituated to people addressing me as Virat Kohli, even asking for selfies sometimes. It’s a mere coincidence. However, I really adore Kohli,” he said during a conversation with India Today. Susobhan runs a diagnostic centre in Ranaghat.

Virat and Anushka became the parents of a baby girl on January 11, 2021. They named her Vamika which means a form of Hindu goddess Durga. They keep sharing Vamika’s photographs from time to time on Instagram. However, in none of these pictures is her face visible.

Last month, a video of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s doppelganger meeting his friend has gone viral as the superstar meeting his son Aryan Khan. At that time too, we had debunked the claim.