The trustee of the NGO confirmed to us that the image is digitally edited and is being spread with malicious intent.

An image is circulating on social media claiming that an NGO named “Citizen for Green Doon” have filed a petition in the Supreme Court urging SC to stop the construction of roads along the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand. To further their cause, they sat in protest holding placards saying, “No road on Indo China border”.

The caption of the post mentions, “An alleged NGO “Citizens For Green Doon” through lawyers Coulin Gonzales & Md Aftab have filed a petition in the SC urging it to stop the construction of roads on the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand citing the environment.

Shamefully Submit to SC that “Indian Forces can use air route in war”

Facebook Post

This incited a lot of hate from social media users. Many reacted angrily and accused the group for protesting against the Indian army and supporting the enemies of our nation. Hence, we decided to verify the claims made in the Facebook post about the viral image. Read below to find what we found during our investigation.

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google whose results led us to the image published by the Facebook group of Citizen for Green Doon. This is a private group aiming for environmental protection. The viral image can be seen in the cover photo of the page. The original image clearly indicates that the image has been digitally edited. The original image shows that the banners mentions “come join CFGD”

https://www.facebook.com/photo/?fbid=10221334849015407&set=p.10221334849015407

Below you can see the comparison between the viral image and the original image showing NGO placard against Indo-China border road construction is morphed.

Fact Crescendo spoke with the trustee of CFGD foundation, Ira Chauhan, who confirmed to us that the image was taken in the month of April this year in Dehradun. They were participating in an awareness programme at DAV College where several students have actively taken part. The image going viral on social media is digitally edited to mislead people. The original poster mentions, “come join CFGD” instead of “No road on India China border”

We also found a clarification posted by Ira Chauhan on her Facebook account, which mentions, “A false and malicious campaign is underway against CFGD with morphed picture and concocted lies. Facts of the case are that CFGD is NOT against construction of border roads nor is it anti national. We are proud Citizens of Mother India and stand by our brave Indian Army.”

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found that the viral image on social media is digitally manipulated to show that the NGO Citizens for Green Doon (CFGD) protested against construction of roads along the Indo-China border. The image original shows “come join CFGD” written on the banner.