Amid the violent clashes that took place between the agitating farmers and Delhi police, a viral video on social media shows some women, who were on their way to take part in the farmers’ protest, being hit by a tanker.

If a post on a Twitter video is to be believed, in a moment of rage a BJP official hit some women when they were on their way to participate in the farmers’ protest march in Delhi.

advertisement

The Hindi caption to the video translates to, “Some women who were on way to take part in the farmers’ protest were hit and run over by an angry BJP worker with a water tanker. However, no media organisation showed these visuals and questioned the BJP leaders. Shameful.”

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The primary member of the Congress, Alka Lamba also posted the video on her Twitter handle with the same claim stating that the incident is “shameful” and “gruesome”.

The archived version of her tweet can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claims made with this video are mostly false. The incident took place on January 26, 2021, in Amritsar. It was a local accident and had no political connection.

THE TRUTH BEHIND THE VIRAL CLAIM

While investigating the video, AFWA found that the incident took place in Amritsar where the water tanker hit five women, two of whom died, and three others were severely injured.

The women were heading towards the Vallah Chowk to take part in an agitation supporting the farmers’ protest. Several media channels had reported the incident.

For further clarifications about the accident, AFWA contacted Sanjeev Kumar, SHO of Vallah Police station, and Jagmohan Singh, DCP Law and Order Amritsar City Police. Both confirmed to AFWA that the incident was a local accident and no political connection. They also said the accident took place as the driver had lost control over his tanker.

“The incident has no political connection. We have arrested the errant driver. A case had also been registered with the Vallah police station,” said Singh.

Hence, it is clear that the claims made with this video on social media are mostly false.