Spread the truth:

Woke up 3 year late and found news on EVM Tampering ?

When people are curious about EVM’s, a news of Year 2014 is shared without date. It’s not a lie but is quite misleading.

Now this way is quite complicated. The usual People who believe in something Are always happy with what is served to them, they don’t look beyond it, check facts.

Misleading: https://www.facebook.com/AAPMaharashtra/posts/1790754664271630

Truth: http://m.timesofindia.com/home/lok-sabha-elections-2014/news/An-EVM-that-votes-only-for-BJP-stuns-poll-staff-in-Assam/articleshow/33153152.cms

Times and India wrote –

TNNCongress lodged a complaint with the Election Commission of India on Wednesday and demanded thorough inspection of all EVMs in just not Jorhat, but the entire state.

GUWAHATI: An electronic voting machine raised many eyebrows across the state during a mandatory mock poll in Jorhat on Tuesday. Every time a button was pressed, the vote went in favour of BJP.







The Jorhat parliamentary constituency returning officer and deputy commissioner Vishal Vasant Solanki told TOI that all EVMs in his custody are being put through a second level of test by engineers of the Electronics Corporation of India Ltd (ECIL), one of the two companies from Hyderabad, which manufactures EVMs.

This Jorhat Lok Sabha seat has Congress stalwart and former Union minister Bijoy Krishna Handique locking horns with BJP youth and tea tribal leader Kamakhya Tasa. This will be Handique’s record seventh successive attempt for the Lok Sabha election. Jorhat goes to the polls on April 7.





State chief electoral officer Vijyandra on Wednesday said, “An EVM in Jorhat was found malfunctioning yesterday. It is a defective machine and it was noticed when EVMs were readied in front of representatives of all political parties. We will not send the faulty unit to any polling station.”





An EVM consists of two units, a control unit and a balloting unit. Both unites are connected with cable. The balloting unit is a small box-like device, on top of which each candidate and his or her election symbol appears. The voter selects his candidate by pressing the blue button.













Related