After the meeting of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee with Union Home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on September 19, an image of the duo has gone viral.

The viral image shows both of them holding a white envelope, purportedly with 'Jai Shri Ram' written on it with the diagram of a temple in the background.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the image is photoshopped.

advertisement

The claim, along with the viral image, was made in Bengali. The archived version can be seen here.

Many people have believed this viral picture and accused Mamata Banerjee of "hypocracy". For someone who had reportedly reacted adversely on being faced with 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans in Bengal, this image has created lots of curiosity on social media.

Facebook user "Miraj Azad" posted this image with a caption in Bengali which when translated says, "Theatrics! This is the same Mamata Banerjee who chased BJP supporters when they raised Jai Shri Ram slogans. She is now standing with Amit Shah and holding a Jai Shri Ram poster with a smile. In Bengal, there is no bigger RSS leader than Mamata. The Modi-Mamata fight that you see in public is all staged."

AFWA probe

AFWA has found that Mamata and Amit Shah are not holding an envelope with 'Jai Shri Ram' written over it. The viral image is photoshopped. During her meeting with Shah, Mamata had handed him a letter about NRC in a white envelope.

Mamata's meeting with Shah last week had created a lot of interest in media circles. So it took us no effort to find images and videos related to the meet. None of the images or media reports show them with an envelope with 'Jai Shri Ram' written on it.

As per a "News18" report, during her meeting with Shah, Mamata had raised the issue of NRC in Assam and told the Home minister that genuine voters' names are missing from the list.

Later, while addressing the media, Mamata had said, "I handed over a letter to him (Shah), told him that of the 19 lakh people left out of NRC, many are Hindi and Bengali speaking; some even Assamese. Many genuine voters have been left out. This should be looked into."

In the original photo, Mamata is seen handing over a white envelope to Shah.

Original image

Viral image

The video of the meeting can be seen in this NDTV report.

advertisement

The Trinamool Congress chief is a fierce critic of the Modi government's decision on NRC in Assam and opposed its plans to start the exercise in West Bengal and other parts of the country. Mamata has also been criticised by the BJP for her objections to 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans in Bengal.

But this viral post claiming that Mamata is holding a poster with "Jai Shri Ram" written on it is completely false. The viral image is photoshopped.