For the past week, social media is filled with posts mostly related to the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, following the revocation of Article 370. Among the social media posts, some information is correct and some misleading.

THE CLAIM

Facebook page "Aam Press" has posted four photographs, claiming to be of the recent condition of Kashmir after the removal of Article 370.

advertisement

The caption in Hindi reads: "After the removal of Article 370, happiness flows all around among the Kashmiri brothers and sisters."

The pictures apparently show the bonhomie between the security forces and the common people.

This post has been shared by more than 800 people till the time of filing this article.

The archived version of the post is here.

THE TRUTH

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim.

They are not recent pictures from Kashmir. Out of the four pictures, three of them are at least over two years old.

FACT CHECK:

Using reverse image search on these viral pictures, AFWA found that almost all of them were used several times earlier on various social media platforms, and websites.

PICTURE 1

In the first picture, a woman with a kid can be seen exchanging smiles with two security personnel.

On June 10, 2017, this picture was tweeted by journalist Aditya Raj Kaul.

He wrote "Sweet photograph of CRPF jawans in #Kashmir playing with a local Kashmiri kid. Cuteness. The smile says it all. Media won't show you ever" on the post.

Kamlesh Kumar Singh, a blogger also posted the same photograph in 2017 in a blog site called "Newsiyana".

PICTURE 2

The second picture shows a Kashmiri family smiling at an armed soldier.

We found this picture was used in a Pakistani blog site on defence-related affairs called "Pakistan Defence" in April 2010.

Later, "rediff.com" used this picture several times on their various articles on Kashmir.

PICTURE 3

The third picture of a personnel distributing sweets on the street featured on various news articles in June 2017.

India Today and India Times reported how, on the festival of Eid in 2017, Army personnel distributed sweets among the common people in Kashmir.

PICTURE 4

The fourth picture has been recently tweeted by user "Shubhankar Mishra" and also used in one Bangla website called "Bangla Hunt" in the context to the revocation of Article 370.

advertisement

Some people have commented that this was an old picture of Kashmir on Shubhankar Mishra's tweet. But we could not independently confirm the original date of this viral picture.

THE CONCLUSION

Out of four viral pictures two of them are found to be at least two years old and one more than nine years.

Though the curfew in the Valley has been relaxed in some places, the telecommunication along with the internet usage is still under heavy restriction.

The viral post along with the pictures do not depict the present condition of Kashmir, hence this post is misleading in nature.