Will a train journey in Japan take lesser time than a flight? Some netizens certainly believe so!

A video of a train ride is being shared on social media along with the claim that the new electric train in Japan is twice as fast as an F-16 fighter aircraft. Many Facebook users have posted the nearly five-minute video of a train ride captured from inside. A speedometer and map show the journey on screen.

advertisement

The caption says, “Japan’s new electric train 4800km/h. From Osaka to Tokyo 515km takes 10 minutes. 4 times faster than aircraft. 2 times faster than F 16. Great job done by Japanese...”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this is not a real train journey but a time-lapse video of a high-speed bullet train journey from Osaka to Tokyo. This journey normally takes 2.5 hours.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, and here.

Truth behind the video

A watermark on the top left corner of the viral video reads “Fermata Studio”. With the help of keyword search, we found it is a YouTube channel that mostly uploads simulation and time-lapse videos of trains and aeroplanes.

In the “about” section, the YouTuber expressed concern about the channel’s immense popularity that has also affected him adversely, as he also received online abuses for the videos. This has led him to withdraw several videos, he said.

“I may release those videos again, or I may remake them, but I don’t know how I will do right now. This channel has become a bit desolate, but I plan to continue making new videos at a slower pace. I have been collecting promising material and fantasies, so please be patient,” reads part of the section.

We found the archived version of the original YouTube video created and uploaded by “Fermata Studio”. The title says, “[High-Speed Simulation] Operating Shinkansen Bullet Train, Osaka to Tokyo (515km) in 10 min”. The original video is 10 minutes and 13 seconds long, from which the viral video has been chopped out.

It has been declared by the YouTuber that it is a time-lapse video. The description says: This movie is a fiction. Normally it takes 2.5 hours from Shin-Osaka to Tokyo. Made by a method called “Time variant hyper-lapse/time-lapse”.

But this video is not available right now. The YouTuber has said that many fact-check websites have debunked various misleading claims that went viral with the video.

“AFP Fact Check” in an article said they have spoken to the YouTuber, who said, “I have been filming window views from trains and aircrafts for the last seven years. Using those videos, I wanted to create a science fiction video that would allow people to experience extreme speed that is impossible in reality.”

advertisement

“Fermata Studio” has uploaded many more time-lapse videos of aeroplanes and trains on the channel.

As per news reports, Japan’s bullet train has the capability of reaching a highest speed of 400 kms per hour. But the viral claim saying Japan’s electric train runs at 4,800 kms per hour is false. And the video used with the claim is a time-lapse video of a bullet train journey.

READ | Fact Check: This is not an Australian astronaut jumping from spaceship to Earth

READ | Fact Check: No boyfriend, no entry? These college circulars are too filmy to be true