A hair-raising CCTV footage showing a car swerving to the roadside and ploughing a group of pedestrians from behind is going viral on social media.

It is being claimed that a Muslim woman in hijab and her daughter were walking on the roadside when an Alto deliberately hit them from behind and killed them in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia. Netizens said this is an example of growing Islamophobia in India.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is false. The victims were not Muslims. They were identified as Usha Devi and her daughter Pushpanjali.

Facebook user “Abid Ali” shared the video and wrote a caption in Hindi which translates to, “#Islamophobia_in_India This incident is from Rasra in UP’s Ballia. A Muslim woman in hijab was walking on the roadside along with her child when an Alto deliberately hit them from behind and killed them. What was their fault that they were murdered in public? Hatred has filled this country. Muslims are fighting both corona and such people.”

Till the filing of this story, the post was viewed more than 1,11,000 times and shared over 15,000 times. The archived version can be seen here. The video has been widely shared on social media.

Our investigation

Using related keywords, we found a YouTube video of “News18 UP Uttarakhand” about the viral clip. As per this news report, the incident took place in Rasra town of UP’s Ballia district, wherein a woman and her daughter were killed in a hit-and-run case. This confirmed to us that the incident is indeed from Ballia.

We also found some news reports regarding the incident. A report by “Amar Ujala” says that the incident took place on April 26 and the victims were identified as Usha Devi and her daughter Pushpanjali.

To verify this information, we reached out to Ballia police. Rasra SHO Saurabh Kumar Rai clarified that the victims were not Muslims and there is no communal angle in the incident. He confirmed that the victims have been identified as Usha Devi and her daughter Pushpanjali. Police have traced the car and the accused will be arrested soon, the SHO said.

Ballia police have also tweeted a copy of the FIR filed in this case. The FIR has also mentioned the name of the victims as Usha Devi (27) and Pushpanjali (12).

Therefore, it is clear that the claim along with the video that the car deliberately hit a woman in hijab and her daughter is communally motivated and the victims were not Muslims.