A video of a few men examining liquor bottles kept in shelfs is circulating on social media with the claim that the Taliban has recovered huge amounts of alcohol from the residence of former Afghan foreign minister Salahuddin Rabbani in Kabul. Salahuddin is the son of former Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani, a legendary anti-Soviet and anti-Taliban fighter.

“ Afghan Taliban can be seen recovering scores of liquor bottles from the residence of Afghanistan’s former foreign minister Salahuddin Rabbani Taliban fighters discovered Rabbani’s expensive liquor stash that was hidden in a room at his residence” says one such caption along with the video.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video was filmed at the warehouse inside the Czech embassy in Kabul and not at the residence of Salahuddin Rabbani.

advertisement

No raising a toast here

Using keyword search, we found that the Czech foreign ministry had confirmed to “Reuters” and the Czech media that the premises shown in the viral video was the warehouse of its Kabul embassy.

Tálibové zejm obsadili sklad eské ambasády. Zmocnili se Becherovky i hoice https://t.co/e2ADepHtXy — Aktuáln.cz (@Aktualnecz) September 14, 2021

The Czech embassy in Kabul was evacuated since the Taliban takeover.

We have found that the viral video is edited. A longer version of the video was shared by a Facebook user on September 14. Here, the entire embassy building, along with the courtyard, can be seen before entering the warehouse.

Comparing the courtyard as seen in this video with an image posted by the Czech embassy in Kabul on July 26, 2018, we identified various similarities.

Grab from longer video

Image posted by Czech embassy

Salahuddin Rabbani reacts

Salahuddin Rabbani had fled to Pakistan after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. After the video went viral with the claim that Taliban found alcohol at his house, the former Afghan foreign minister took to Facebook to respond.

Calling it a false propaganda https://www.facebook.com/Salahuddin.Rabbani/posts/4336516306465935) against the former Afghan government, Salahuddin confirmed that the video shows the premises of the Czech embassy in Kabul and not his residence.