A video is being widely shared on social media, claiming that Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has ‘insulted’ Lord Ram. In the viral clip, Ashok Gehlot can be heard saying that ‘Ra’ in Ram means Lord Ram and ‘M’ means Mohammed.

The video is shared on Facebook with a Hindi caption: “राम में जो रा है उसका मतलब राम है और राम में जो म है उसका मतलब मोहम्मद है :- अशोक गहलोत मुख्य मंत्री राजस्थान कब तक यह लोग भगवान राम का इस तरह से अपमान करेंगे?” (English translation: RA in Ram means Ram and M in Ram means Mohammad: Ashok Gehlot, Chief Minister of Rajasthan. How long will these people insult Lord Ram like this?)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

When NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, it was found to be MISLEADING.

Using the InVid Tool, we extracted keyframes from the viral video and performed a Reverse Image Search with relevant keywords. This search directed us to a news report published by Bhaskar on May 28, 2022. According to the report, Chief Minister Gehlot participated in a programme organised at Dariyav Dham Ren, head bench of the Ramsnehi sect in Nagaur, Rajasthan. Gehlot said: “Dariyav ji Maharaj had mentioned that the Ra in Ram means Ram and the M in Ram means Mohammed. The symbol of such Hindu-Muslim unity was Dariyav ji Maharaj.”

Searching further, we found the video of the event uploaded on the official YouTube account of Chief Minister Gehlot on May 28, 2022. In the 41:20-minute video, Gehlot reads with a paper in his hand: “Dariyav ji Maharaj had said that the word ‘RA’ in Ram means Ram and the ‘M’ means Mohammed. The symbol of such Hindu-Muslim unity was Dariyav ji Maharaj.”

Thus, it is evident from the above information that Chief Minister Gehlot was speaking while quoting Dariyav ji Maharaj. Hence, the viral post is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news