The first batch of Rafale fighter jets touched down on Indian soil on July 29. Now, a video of jets forming a tricolour in the skies is going viral with the claim that this was how France bid farewell to the Rafales destined for India. The video shows jets emerging from behind a magnificent structure and forming synchronised smoke trails of green, white and red colours.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. The video has nothing to do with Rafales and is an old clip of Italy’s Republic Day celebrations in Rome.

The video with the false claim is being widely circulated on social media. The caption reads, “Everyone talked about Rafael landing in India but see the farewell from France with Indian Tricolors.” The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Using InVID tool, we found an article on a Chinese news website “Xinhua Net” which says the visuals are from Italy’s Republic Day celebrations in its capital Rome. Several videos of Italy’s R-Day celebrations are available on the Internet, which shows visuals similar to the viral video.

Republic Day in Italy

Italy celebrates its Republic Day on June 2 in which its Air Force performs synchronised stunts, forming the Italian tricolour in the skies. The grand building seen in the viral video is Victor Emmanuel II National Monument from where the R-Day parade starts. The Italian national flag can also be seen in the viral video.

Indian and Italian national flags have near-similar colours, due to which social media users often get misled. The Italian flag has vertical pales of green, white and red, and the Indian flag has horizontal pales of saffron, white and green. So when such air shows are performed in the sky, viewers are prone to be misled.

On July 27, the day the Rafales took off from France, the Indian embassy there tweeted a video of the jets taking off from Merignac airbase in Bordeaux.

The same video went viral last year as well with the claim that this was how India’s Independence Day was marked in London’s Trafalgar Square. At that time too, AFWA had debunked the claim.

Therefore, it can be said that the video of jets forming a tricolour in the skies has nothing to do with Rafales. This was not how France bid farewell to the jets destined for India as claimed in the viral post. It is an old clipping of Italy’s Republic Day celebrations.