The buzz around Aamir Khan’s highly-anticipated upcoming movie “Laal Singh Chaddha”, a remake of Tom Hanks' Hollywood hit “Forrest Gump”, has been loud on social media. However, amid the memes and discussions, a video that features Khan’s co-star Kareena Kapoor Khan has gone viral with a startling claim.

Those sharing the video claimed that Kapoor appealed to people to boycott “Laal Singh Chaddha”. It was also shared along with the hashtag #BoycottLaalSinghChaddha.

advertisement

In the viral video, she could be heard saying, “The audience has made us, no one else has made us. The same people pointing fingers are the ones who have made these nepotistic stars right? Aap jaa re ho na film dekhne? Mat jao (You’re going to theatres to watch the film? Don’t go). Nobody has forced you. So I don’t understand it. I find this whole discussion is completely weird.”

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the viral clip was taken from a 2020 news debate and it has no connection with “Laal Singh Chaddha”. Kapoor was responding to a question about nepotism in Bollywood.

The viral posts are saved here and here.

AFWA Probe

A simple reverse search of frames from the viral video led us to an August 2020 report in Pinkvilla. It quoted the same response from Kapoor that had gone viral in an interview about nepotism in Bollywood.

Another report in India Times around the same time mentioned this interview was given to journalist Barkha Dutt for “We The Women”.

We then found the longer version of the interview on the YouTube channel of Mojo Story, a news outlet led by Dutt. The title of the YouTube video was, “Kareena Kapoor has been called the Ultimate Insider. This is what she says on the Nepotism Debate”.

Around the 3.35 mark in the video, Dutt asks Kapoor, “The way I see it, Kareena you will definitely get an easier start, you will definitely get more doors to open, but if the audience doesn’t like you there’s nothing you can do about it.” Kapoor’s response was the section seen in the viral clip.

So, it is clear that in this video from 2020, what Kareena Kapoor said was in the context of nepotism in Bollywood. It has nothing to do with “Laal Singh Chaddha”.