The original image does not show Nehru’s framed photo in the background.

An image showing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz sitting for a meeting is widely circulating on social media. Users claim that the room where PM Modi and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz were sitting had an image of Jawaharlal Nehru framed on the wall.

PM Modi arrived in Berlin on 2nd May morning on the first leg of his three-nation Europe trip which includes visits to Denmark and France as well. Chancellor Scholz received him in a ceremonial welcome at the Federal Chancellery in Berlin upon his arrival for talks.



The caption of the image states, “Nowadays Modi’s devotees speak arrogantly about Nehru ji, but why are the pictures of Nehru installed in foreign countries?”

(Hindi: आजकल हमारे देश मे नेहरू जी के बारे में मोदी जी के ही भक्त अनाप शनाप बोलते है पर विदेशों में तो नेहरू कि तस्वीरे लगाई जाती है क्यों?)

Facebook Post

Facebook Post

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google, which led us to PM Modi’s Twitter account where this image was posted on 2nd May 2022. The caption of the image states, “Expanding India-Germany cooperation. PM Narendra Modi and Chancellor Scholz meet in Berlin.”

Upon carefully observing the image, we found that there is no frame of Jawaharlal Nehru in the background. The viral image is edited.

PM Modi also posted several other images of his discussions with Chancellor Scholz on his Facebook account on 3 May 2022. The caption of his post stated, “I had wide-ranging discussions with Chancellor Scholz. Today’s talks covered trade, commerce, innovation, culture and people-to-people linkages. India and Germany are working together on several subjects. This partnership will benefit our entire planet. Bundesregierung.”

Below you can see a comparison image between the viral image and the original image. This makes it clear that the viral image has been digitally edited and Nehru’s image has been added to the image.

You can also see in the video given below that there is no photo of Pandit Nehru on the wall in the background.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the viral image digitally altered. The original image does not show Nehru’s photo frame in the background. The image shows PM Modi and Chancellor Scholz in Berlin.