Has Bangla been officially declared the second language of London? Hundreds of social media users have claimed that Bangla language is now officially declared’ as the second language of London, followed by Polish and Turkish.

Facebook page Getbengal’ shared a link of its own article with the claim, BREAKING! Bengali has been officially named as the second most-spoken language in London, followed by Polish and Turkish. Be proud of Bengali, be proud of your mother tongue!

advertisement

The article goes on to claim, Bengali is officially the second language of London, with around 71,609 London residents speaking it as their main language.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral claim to be misleading. It was actually a survey done by a private organisation which came out with the conclusion that Bangla is the most commonly spoken language after English in London.

Though the viral article does mention the survey, it has wrongly called it officially declared.

Till the filing of this story, the viral post was shared almost 600 times. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

We ran a Google keyword search to crosscheck if an announcement declaring Bangla as the second language of London was made by the British government but could not find anything. We found that a private organisation called City Lit’ recently conducted a survey on languages spoken in London.

On November 19, City Lit’ published a research report which shows that Bangla is the second most common language spoken in London.

The report says, We recently conducted research into the most common foreign tongue here in London Our research shows that Bengali is the second most common language spoken in London behind English, closely followed by Polish and Turkish. In London, 71, 609 London residents speak Bengali and this language is most commonly spoken across three different boroughs - Camden, Newham and Tower Hamlets - three huge boroughs in the city.

The report has nothing to do with any British Government census. We contacted the British Census Programme Office and enquired about the claim. In an email reply to India Today, Richard Cameron, Census Programme Manager, Intelligence, said, ’City Lit give no details of what their research involved. The number they cite for Bengali (Bangla) speakers in London 71,609 is much lower than the Census figure for 2011 114,267, and that was lower than the number of Polish speakers in 2011 147,816. So City Lit’s claim seems implausible. Census is the only source that can be considered authoritative but it relates to 2011. The current position may be quite different to that of nearly nine years ago.’’

City Lit - a brief

Based in London, City Lit conducts various short and long term courses in arts, design and language for adults. The organisation was established in 1919 and has a registered office in Keeley Street in London’s Convent Garden.

Conclusion

The British government’s official website says the next Census will be conducted in 2021. So it is clear that only after that survey will we get an update on languages spoken in the UK and London. So it can be said that the viral claim of Bangla being officially declared the second language of London is misleading.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Truth behind viral post showing Chinese biz tycoon Jack Ma’s struggle

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Rawalpindi school with high-tech attendance system passed off as Delhi's