Several protests by migrants have broken out in Gujarat recently. With most industries shut due to the lockdown, migrants have demanded that they be sent back home in the absence of work, food and money.

Amid this, a video of a group of people damaging buildings and vehicles is going viral on social media with the claim that the incident took place in Surat, Gujarat, where people are demanding that they be either provided ration or be shot dead.

advertisement

Watch video here

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the viral video is false. The incident is from Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir where workers of a textile mill company took to the streets demanding full wages and arrangements for them to return home.

AFWA probe

Right at the beginning of the video, we could figure out “Chenab Textile” written on a board on the right-hand corner. We searched the Internet using keywords “Chenab Textile protests” and came across this incident.

The incident is from Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir where protests by workers of Chenab Textile Mills on May 8 turned violent. The protesters, mostly migrants, were demanding full wages and return tickets home.

The central and state governments have arranged for migrants to return to their states in buses and ‘Shramik Special’ trains. The protesting workers in Kathua were demanding the same arrangements for them.

We also came across media reports of the protest where one can see images of the “Chenab Textile Mills” board and a broken police vehicle as visible in the viral video.

News agency “ANI” also tweeted photos of the protest.

Jammu & Kashmir: A protest by Chenab Textile Mills workers turns violent in Kathua. Workers demand full payment of salaries. SSP Shailendra Mishra says, "They think that payment given by the mill is not sufficient. Also, they want to go home. Injured will be sent to hospital". pic.twitter.com/Thpq92MGmo — ANI (@ANI) May 8, 2020

Conclusion

Surat and Ahmedabad in Gujarat have recently witnessed protests by migrant workers employed in various industries in these districts. Migrants say with factories shut, they have run out of money and food, and hence, arrangements should be made so that they can return home.

Migrants complain that even in these circumstances, their land owners are demanding rents from them. In some cases, the protests have turned violent, forcing police to lathicharge the mob and detain some.

But it is clear that the viral video is not from Surat where people are demanding that they be either provided rations or shot dead. The video is from Kathua in J&K where migrant workers are demanding full wages and arrangements to return home.