Update (21 August 2024):

Another video circulating on social media shows a man laughing at his partner’s torn skirt, while a farmer comes to her aid at a bus stand (here, here, and here). Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

The Archived post can be seen here.

Claim: A girl’s partner laughs at her torn skirt while a farmer helps her by offering his clothes



Fact: It’s a scripted video. The channel included a disclaimer in the description, stating that the video was created for entertainment and social awareness purposes. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

Upon reviewing the full video, we observed that towards the end, it clearly states that the video is not real and was created solely for educational purposes. A reverse image search of the viral video’s keyframes led us to a YouTube channel named ‘3RD EYE,’ which published the same video under the title ‘A Sequence of Greatest Videos On The Internet! See What This Farmer Did At The Bus Stop.’ The video description on this channel reads, “Please be aware that this channel features scripted dramas and parodies to raise awareness about different situations. These short films are intended for entertainment purposes only!” This channel has produced many similar scripted videos (here, here, and here).

Update (20 October 2023):

Another video is being shared on social media claiming it shows visuals of a couple harassing a woman imprisoned in a cage. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of two people assaulting a woman imprisoned in a cage.



Fact: The video shared in the post is a scripted one. The video was made for entertainment and educational purposes. The video does not show a real incident. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.

On observing the video carefully, towards the end of the video, one could see a disclaimer at the bottom of the video. The disclaimer displayed in the video states- “The content made in this video should be considered for entertainment purpose only. Information contained herein is not intended to be source of advice or credit analysis with respect to the information presented.” There are many such scripted videos published by a few digital creators on social media. A few of those videos can be seen here and here. Though we could not ascertain the original creator of the video, it can be concluded that the video shows a scripted drama, but not a real incident as claimed in the post.

Update (05 October 2023):

Another video is being shared on social media claiming it is the visuals of a man demonstrating the hazardous properties of cool drinks. The video shows a man keeping eggs inside a pot and filling it with Coca-Cola. The man extracted egg yolks without the outer layer a few minutes after dipping Coco-Cola and Mentos gums into the pot. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a man demonstrating an experiment with eggs, mentos Coco-Cola. Fact: The video shared in the post is a scripted one. A Facebook page named Social Message published many such scripted videos for public awareness purposes. Beverages have no such properties as taking out the outer layer of the egg without boiling. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.

On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video, a video with similar visuals was found published by a Facebook page named ‘Social Message’. This Facebook page published the video describing it as a demonstration of removing the peel of an egg using cool drinks. In the Intro description of the ‘Social Message’ Facebook handle, they mentioned that they create scripted videos for public awareness purposes. This Facebook page published many such unrealistic experiment videos on its handle. Beverages have no such properties as taking out the outer layer of the egg without boiling.

Update (03 October 2023):

Another video is being shared on social media claiming that the visuals show a driver attempting to escape in his car while a civic police volunteer steering the car with his hand. As per the post, the driver allegedly attempted to flee when a civic police volunteer tried to take out the keys of the car for breaking rules. A few users shared the same video mentioning that the video is from West Bengal.

However, on reverse image search of the screenshots of the video shared in the post, we found an article revealing the details of the video. This news site reported it as a scripted video created by a comedy page named “Comedy Processing Unit”. ‘Doinandin News’ and many other news channels too confirmed it as a scripted drama. The members who created the video issued a clarification stating that the video was a scripted drama and said they had deleted the video from their channel.

This Facebook page published many such scripted videos on Facebook and on their YouTube channel. A disclaimer provided in one of the video states- “This video is made for only entertainment purpose. All characters and events depicted in this film rely fictious. Any similarity to actual events or living or dead is purely coincidental.”

Update (20 September 2023):

A video showing a farmer administering unknown substances to crops is circulating, accompanied by a claim that farmers are injecting harmful chemicals into the plants. This video is being shared as a warning to inform people about such incidents.

The viral video is actually a segment taken from a scripted video created for the purpose of raising awareness. After conducting a keyword search, we discovered a Facebook page that shared the extended version of the viral video. The video’s description on this page clarifies that it is scripted and was produced to educate people about the use of yield-enhancing drugs for crops. Additionally, in the introduction section of the page, it explicitly states, “All the videos posted on this page are fully scripted, created for the sole purpose of spreading awareness.”

Furthermore, this page contains numerous other scripted videos designed to inform the public. This evidence solidifies the fact that the viral footage does not depict a real incident but rather a carefully scripted one.

Update (13 September 2023):

Another video shows a woman customer insulting a physically handicapped delivery person by throwing away the food he brought. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

A reverse image search of the viral video led us to the original video published on the YouTube channel ‘3RD EYE’ on 01 April 2023. However, in the video description, the channel states that it features scripted dramas and parodies of aware people in different situations. Moreover, at the end of the video, a disclaimer clarifies that it is reel footage created for the purpose of educating the public and not a real-life incident.

Update (06 September 2023):

A video is being shared on social media, which shows a young girl married to a relatively older man. The text on the video describes the girl as a gold digger. Let’s verify the authenticity of this video through this article.

Firstly, we observed two watermarks on the video: one is ‘Prajapatixyzfact’, and the other is ‘Credit: Sachin Sharma Video.’ Taking these as hints, we performed a keyword search on the internet to find more details about the video. This led us to the Facebook pages under their respective names (Prajapatixyzfact and Sachin Sharma Video). Both pages upload videos made for entertainment purposes. We could not find the original video on Sachin Sharma’s page and his YouTube channel. But, we noticed that the same people featured in the viral video also appeared in several other videos he uploaded. The old man is seen in these videos (here, here, and here). The girl is featured in these videos (here, here, and here).

All this clearly indicates that the viral video of the young girl getting married to a relatively older man is also a scripted video.

Update (18 August 2023):

A video is being shared on social media claiming that it shows visuals of an old man marrying a young girl. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video and by using relevant keywords, the same video was found published on a Facebook page named ‘Comedy Entertainment’. This Facebook page published the video on 12 July 2023. ‘Comedy Entertainment’ published many such similar scripted dramas using the same actors as seen in the video. A few such scripted videos published on Comedy Entertainment Facebook page can be seen here and here.

Update (07 August 2023):

A video of traffic police making a man pay compensation to a street-side food vendor after his wife spills a food container is being shared on social media, praising the act of the Traffic police. Let’s check the veracity of this video through this fact-checking article.

Upon clearly going through the footage, we have observed a few similarities (the blinking red circle, and red arrow, the time code on the top right, and the yellow with black-bordered font) with videos made by a YouTube channel named ‘3rd Eye,’ which we debunked earlier when they were shared as real videos. 3rd Eye makes scripted videos for entertainment purposes (find this disclaimer in this video).

Taking this as a hint, we looked for this video on 3rd Eye’s official YouTube channel and Facebook but could not find it. But, during this search, we found that the actors in the viral video are also in some of the other videos produced by 3rd Eye. We can find them here, here, and here. They also made a sketch similar to the viral video in which the couple playing the tole of vendors are featured along with the man who pays them money in it. You can find them on the right-side screengrab in the following collage.

This makes it clear that the viral video is a scripted drama featuring actors who frequently appear in 3rd Eye’s videos and is being falsely shared as a real one on social media.

Update (13 July 2023):

Due to the recent sharp increase (in 2023) in tomato prices, a video depicting a man smuggling tomatoes cleverly concealed within the bandages wrapped around his leg has gained significant traction. The video captures the moment when the police unveil the truth by cutting the bandage.

Upon careful observation of the viral video, at 2:55 time stamp, we found a disclaimer that states that it is a scripted video, made for entertainment purposes. This makes it clear the visuals do not depict any real incident.

Further, we traced the roots of the original video on a Facebook page called ‘Social Junction’, on which the same video was uploaded on 04 July 2023. Even this video carried a disclaimer at the same time stamp stating that it is a fictitious video. The intro section of this page reads “The videos posted on this page are scripted, made for the purpose of awareness”. And there are multiple such scripted videos shared on this page. Hence, this establishes that the viral visuals are not related to a real incident but are shot for entertainment purposes.

Update (12 July 2023):

A video of an alleged marriage of an old man with a relatively young woman is being shared on social media. It is claimed that this video shows a twisted tale of Nikah Halala. In Islam, a man cannot remarry his ex-wife after their divorce unless she marries someone else and gets a divorce. This video is being circulated with a claim that it shows a Nikah Halala, which is a marriage done under a pre-agreement that the man who marries a woman will divorce her so that she can remarry her ex-husband. In the viral video, it is claimed that the ex-husband of the woman seen in this video asked his grandfather to marry her (a Nikah Halala wedding), but the woman preferred the old man instead of her ex-husband.

Firstly, we observed that the language spoken in the video is Bengali. Taking this as a hint, we performed a search on the internet which led us to a video titled ‘Halala – Bangladeshi Muslims! Grandfather Married Grandson’s Wife!’ which is almost the same length as the viral clip. A further search by including “Bangladesh” in the keywords in Bangla led us to the full version of the viral clip uploaded on a YouTube channel named ‘Sharmin Shakil’ in November 2022. The visuals in the viral video appear at the 7:10 mark.

Based on the video’s description in Bangla, this is a video made for the sake of entertainment. Sahil mentioned in the description that the stories of his channel are taken from real life and that they are not responsible if it matches anyone’s life. This clearly means that they make these videos for entertainment purposes. Moreover, the male actor who plays the husband in this video is also seen in a few other videos uploaded on the same channel (here and here). This makes it clear that a scripted video is being shared as an actual incident.

Update (27 June 2023):

Another video is being shared on social media in which a seemingly odd couple is seen speaking with a man behind the camera. The man in the video is allegedly a Hindi school teacher of the young girl. According to the video description, the girl is three months pregnant with his child. Let’s verify this claim through this article.

We searched the internet to learn more details about the video, which led us to a Facebook video uploaded by a video creator named Sourabh Verma. This is a longer version of the viral clip, which is 7 minutes and 26 seconds long. In the introduction section of his page, Sourabh mentioned, ‘Only Entertainment Purpose,’ indicating that he creates fictional content for entertainment. This reasoning was further solidified when we looked at Sourabh’s YouTube channel, which has 103K subscribers. There, he uploads similar content.

Furthermore, we found the same couple in another video with a similar concept on a channel named Kausar Khan. According to the channel description, Kausar creates comedy and prank videos. In this video, the girl is seen wearing a different school uniform. A disclaimer stating that this video was made purely for entertainment purposes appears at the 27-second mark. With this evidence, we can conclude that the viral video is fictional and does not depict an actual incident.

Update (11 May 2023):

A video showcasing a brawl at a wedding is gaining significant traction on social media. It is accompanied by allegations that the father-in-law assaulted his son-in-law with slippers, sparked by the latter’s demand for a motorcycle as dowry. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

By conducting a reverse image search using keyframes from the viral video, we were able to trace the original footage. This full video, featuring identical visuals, was uploaded on the ‘Maithili Bazar’ YouTube channel on 08 May 2021. The channel characterises itself as a platform for comedy and entertainment. Furthermore, the video description provides the names of the artists featured in this short film. Consequently, it’s evident that the viral video is a staged performance, not a depiction of a real-life incident.

Update (17 April 2023):

A video is going viral on social media in which a police officer can be seen confronting a group of young people who, according to him, were drinking alcohol in a cool drink bottle. Let’s verify the authenticity of this video through this article.

However, this is a scripted video. Performing a keyword search on the internet led us to a 2-minute 20-sec version of the same video in which the cop refers to himself as ‘Amar Kataria.‘ Taking this as a hint, we looked for Amar Kaaria’s social media profiles on the internet and found his Facebook page, which has around 67K followers. Amar uploaded a longer version of the viral video on this page on 4th April 2023. It matched with the viral video from 3:39 seconds to 4:09 seconds. It is mentioned in the description of the video that it is a scripted video which is made to generate social awareness.

Update (10 April 2023):

A video of a woman and an army officer making a politician to place the national flag on his car correctly is being shared on social media as an actual incident.

Upon performing a keyword search, we found an extended version of the viral clip published by a Facebook page called ‘STVnewes’ in August 2022. We realised this video could be a scripted one made by a YouTube channel named ‘3rd Eye.’ They make scripted videos (here) to bring awareness among the common public. In the past, the videos produced by 3rd Eye were shared as real incidents and Factly debunked them. The Rec. text, the red arrow and the cam timer looked similar to the videos ‘3rd Eye’ generally produces. We took these as hints, searched their YouTube Channel, and found the video on it, which was uploaded on 17 Aug 2022. This video even carries a disclaimer at the end, which says it is fictional.

Update (17 March 2023):

A video of a man thrashing a burqa clad man , accusing him of child theft is being widely circulated. The video is being shared with a communal spin, as it shows areal incident.

However, the viral video does not show any real incident, but a scripted video, shot with actors. Reverse image search of the screenshots of the viral video, led us to YouTube short video on a channel titled ‘Ankur Jatuskaran Vlog’. This channel contains multiple videos of the same man, who can be seen thrashing the burqa clad man in the viral video. In most of these videos, he can be seen thrashing other people.

Further, he shared a full-length video on one of his Facebook page. This video contains a clear disclaimer stating that is a fictional work done for entertainment purpose.

Upon analysing the content made available on these YouTube channels and Facebook pages, it appears that this channel could be uploading videos shot with the help of actors. The viral video could be one such creation, made for informative purpose.

Another YouTube channel of the same person, with 1.3 million subscribers, also uploaded similar scripted videos. Thus, it can be concluded that, the viral visuals do not show any real incident but a scripted drama.

Update (14 March 2023):

A video purportedly showing a beggar slapping a police officer and fleeing the scene is being shared widely on social media as a genuine incident. Let’s verify the authenticity of the claim made in the video.

Upon careful examination, we discovered that the video includes a credit that reads “Written & Directed by Anurag Shukla” at the end, which suggests that it is a short film. Additionally, the Facebook page that initially shared the video has posted various short videos on different topics, and their channel description states, “Team Anurag We have created our videos with a purpose to make people laugh and be stress-free.” Given that numerous social media users are sharing a scripted video as a real incident, this post is misleading.

Update (13 March 2023):

A video, in which two girls can be seen burning the clothes of a beggar is being shared as if the visuals show a true incident.

This video of girls burning the clothes of a beggar is going viral on social media. The video shows, how a girl misconstrued a beggar for a thief and burnt his clothes in anger only to realise later that the beggar tried to return her money. However, the video does not show any real incident, but is a scripted video made for informative purpose. At the end of the video, there is a clear display of a disclaimer, stating the same. Despite this disclaimer, social media users are sharing the video as a real incident.

Update (13 February 2023):

Another video is being shared on social media claiming it to show visuals of an Ayyappa devotee rescuing a Muslim woman from eve teasers at a bus stop. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of an Ayyappa devotee rescuing a Muslim woman from eve teasers. Fact: The video shared in the post is a scripted one. The video was created by ‘Eagle Eye’ YouTube channel for entertainment and educational purposes. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.

On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video and by searching using relevant keywords on the internet, a video with similar visuals was found published by ‘Eagle Eye’ YouTube channel on 03 April 2022. This YouTube channel described it as a motivational video created to portray how Muslims and Hindus can live together. A disclaimer provided in the video description states, “Thank you for watching! Please be aware that this Channel features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”

Update (27 December 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media claiming it as visuals of an old man marrying a young girl. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of an old man marrying a young girl. Fact: The video shared in the post is a scripted one. A prankster named Karan Kotnala published this video and provided a disclaimer informing it to be a scripted video created for entertainment purposes. The video does not show a real incident. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video, a video with similar visuals was found published by a YouTube channel named Karan Kotnala. An 8:13 minutes extended version of the video was published on this YouTube channel describing it as visuals of a 62-year-old man marrying a 17-year-old girl. At 0:38 minutes of the video, one could see a disclaimer informing it was a scripted video created for entertainment purposes. Karan Kotnala described himself as a prankster and a video creator on his social media handles. Several scripted and prank videos were found published on Karan Kotnala’s YouTube channel. A few of them can be seen here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the video is scripted and does not show a real incident.

Update (19 December 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media titled ‘a 52-year-old lady marries a 21-year-old young boy.’ This is being shared as love marriage. Let’s fact-check this claim through this article.

Claim: A love marriage between a young 21-year-old boy and a 52-year-old woman. Fact: The visuals shared in the post are from a scripted video. An Instagram page called ‘techparesh’ has published many more such scripted videos related to weddings. The people who appear as a couple in this video have also acted as couples to other people in other scripted videos uploaded on ‘techparesh’. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

We ran a reverse image search using a few keyframes from the viral video. This led us to a YouTube post containing the same video. This video was credited to an Instagram handle, ‘techparesh’. ‘techparesh’ uploaded this video on 03 December 2022. Many such videos related to weddings have been uploaded on this page.

The people who appeared as a couple in the viral video have also posed as couples to other people in some other videos published by the ‘techparesh‘ Instagram page. Hence, it is certain that the visuals shared in the post is from a scripted video.

Update (12 December 2022):

Another post sharing a video link claims it to be visuals of a beggar misbehaving with a woman on the road. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a beggar misbehaving with a woman. Fact: The link provided in the post is a clickbait. The video shared in the linked article is a scripted drama created for educational and entertainment purposes by the ‘Eye Focus’ YouTube channel. The video does not show a real incidents. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

Upon watching the full video carefully, one could see that the mad beggar was not seen misbehaving with any woman in the video. The video shows a little school-going girl rescuing a beggar from a boy teasing him. The video was published by the ‘Eye Focus’ YouTube channel with the title, “SALUTE TO THIS LITTLE GIRL”, with a hashtag “#Social Awareness”. A disclaimer provided towards the end states, “Please be aware that this Channel features scripted dramas and parodies to Aware People in Different Situations. This Channel Brings Social Awareness Videos. These short films are for entertainment purposes only!” From this, it can be concluded that the video shared in the post is scripted and does not show a real incident.

Update (07 December 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media claiming it is the CCTV footage exposing a beggar faking as a handicapped man with no legs. This video shows a man removing his fake attire as a beggar and escaping on a vehicle after finishing his work. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: CCTV footage exposing a fake handicapped beggar. Fact: The video shared in the post is a scripted one. At the end of this video shared in the post, a disclaimer was provided stating it was a video created for entertainment and educational purposes. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

On observing the video carefully, one could see a disclaimer at the end few seconds of the video. The disclaimer provided in the video states, “The reel life video footage published only for the purpose of educating the public by making them understand how the real world situations will be and picturized to educate public. Characters in this video are entertainment and education purposes.” A few other Facebook users have also shared this 3:17-minute scripted video on their Facebook page. Though we could not find the details of the creator of this video, it can be confirmed that the video shared in the post is scripted and does not show a real incident.

Update (18 November 2022):

Video 1:

A video is being shared on social media claiming it is the visuals of a 50-year-old man married to an 18-year-old girl. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a 50-year-old man who married an 18-year-old young girl. Fact: The video shared in the post is a scripted one. A prank video creator named Sourabh Jha has created this video. But he later uploaded another version of the same concept produced with a different cast. A disclaimer provided below this new video has clearly stated it is a scripted video created for entertainment and educational purposes. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

On reverse image search of the screenshots in the video, an extended version of this video was found posted by many users and entertainment channels in June 2022. They can be seen here and here. But these users did not mention any credible sources for the video. When searched for more sources using the keywords, a video showing similar visuals of the same concept but produced with a different cast was found published by a YouTube channel named Sourabh Jha. Sourabh Jha is a prank video creator who publishes scripted and prank videos for entertainment. On observing this video carefully, one could hear the same male voice who caught the couple in a temple as shown in the video shared in the post. A disclaimer provided below this video clearly stated it was a scripted video created for educational and entertainment purposes. The old version of this video was now not available on any of the social media handles of Sourabh Jha. There are many such scripted videos of old men marrying young girls. They can be seen here and here.

Video 2:

Another video is being shared on social media claiming it is the visuals of a child saving an electrocuted young man’s life. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a child saving an electrocuted young man’s life. Fact: The video shared in the post shows a social awareness video created by the ‘3RD Eye’ YouTube channel. A disclaimer provided in the video stated it was a scripted video created for entertainment and educational purposes. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video, a video with similar visuals was found published by the ‘3RD Eye’ YouTube channel on 17 May 2022. ‘3RD Eye’ in the description of the video stated it was a social awareness video created by them. A disclaimer provided in the video clearly stated it was a scripted drama created for entertainment and educational purposes. A few other scripted videos published by the ‘3RD Eye’ YouTube channel can be seen here and here.

Update (10 October 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media, which claims that a man is marrying a Eunuch. The post description reads ‘married eunuch for money.’ Let’s verify the claim through this article.

Claim: Man married a Eunuch for the sake of money. Fact: The video contains actors who are featured in similar scripted videos. These videos carried a disclaimer stating that they were made for entertainment purposes. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

We searched the internet with relevant keywords to find a longer version of the viral video but could not find any. However, we found a few similar videos that feature the same persons from the viral video. One video (here) titled ’25-year-old greedy girl marries 65-year-old man’ features the same woman from the viral video. The video carries a disclaimer which says the video is made for entertaining people.

Another video features the man from the viral video in a similar situation where he is marrying a Eunuch and gets interrupted by his wife. This video also contains a disclaimer to notify the audience that it was created to entertain them.

Another video was uploaded to Facebook by a page named ‘Just Fun,’ its storyline is the same as the viral video and features the same actors from it as the father and son. With all this evidence, we can conclude that the viral video is fictional and features actors who work in similar videos that are made for entertainment purposes.

Update (30 September 2022):

Video 1:

Another video of an old man helping a lady traffic police who is struggling with menstrual cramps is being shared widely on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of an old man helping a woman traffic police struggling with menstrual cramps. Fact: The disclaimer given in the original video says, “This reel life video footage published only for the purpose of educating the public by making them understand how the real-world situations will be and pictured to educate the public. Characters in this video are entertainment and educational purpose”. This proves that the video is a scripted one and is shared as a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE

Upon searching the internet with relevant keywords, we found the full-length video of this incident on YouTube. This video was uploaded by “3RD EYE” Youtube channel on 05 May 2022. At 3:27 minutes, the disclaimer says, “This reel life video footage published only for the purpose of educating the public by making them understand how the real-world situations will be and pictured to educate the public. Characters in this video are entertainment and educational purpose.” Also, the description below the video says, “Please be aware that this Channel features scripted dramas and parodies to Aware People in Different Situations. This Channel Brings Social Awareness Videos. These short films are for entertainment purposes only!”. Hence, it can be concluded that a scripted video is passed off as a real incident.

Video 2:

Another video of a boy in Gandhi avatar helping a pregnant woman is being widely shared on social media platforms as a real incident. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a boy in Gandhi avatar helping a pregnant woman. Fact: The title of the full-length video uploaded on YouTube mentions it as ‘social awareness’ video. Also, the description of the video says, “Please be aware that this Channel features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”. Since a scripted video is shared as a real incident, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

We searched the internet using the keywords and found that the full version of the video uploaded by “Eyes on you” YouTube channel. The title of the video mentions it as a ‘social awareness video’. The description of the video reads, “Thank you for watching! Please be aware that this Channel features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”.

This video was also shared by ‘Sanjjanaa Galrani’ on Facebook. Her page intro says, “I do share videos and scripted dramas to create awareness”. Also 2:56 timestamp video a disclaimer says, “please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for educational purposes only!”. Hence, it can be concluded that this is a scripted video and not a real incident.

Update (29 September 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media in which a couple traps their house owner in what seems like an extramarital affair being busted by the husband. The text on the video reads, ‘be careful.’ Let’s verify this video through this article.

Claim: A couple traps their house owner and creates a fake extramarital affair bust scene. Fact: A disclaimer is given in the description of the full version of this video, which is available on YouTube. It reads ‘Disclaimer: Thank you for watching! Please be aware that this Channel features scripted dramas and parodies to Aware People in Differnet Situations. This Channel Brings Social Awareness Videos. These short films are for entertainment purposes only! .’ Clearly, the viral post shares a scripted video made for entertainment purposes as a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

We ran a keyword search on the internet using relevant keywords and found a lengthier version of this video on the YouTube channel, 3RD EYE. Uploaded on 22 May 2022, this video contains a disclaimer in the post description that reads ‘ Disclaimer: Thank you for watching! Please be aware that this Channel features scripted dramas and parodies to Aware People in Differnet Situations. This Channel Brings Social Awareness Videos. These short films are for entertainment purposes only!’ Hence, it can be concluded that this video is scripted, and the viral post falsely passes it off as a real incident.

Update (26 September 2022):

Another video of journalists interviewing a Bihar Government school teachers’ is being shared as a real incident in which the teachers can be seen questioning the knowledge of journalists. Let’s verify the claim made in the post

Claim: Video of journalists interviewing Bihar government school teachers in which teachers were questioning journalist’s knowledge. Fact: In the full-version of this video available on the YouTube, the editor-in-chief of the channel said that this is a scripted video. He also explains that the purpose of this video is to show that not all teachers are incompetent in Bihar Government schools as portrayed by media. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE

We searched the internet with relevant keywords and found that the full-length version of this video was uploaded on YouTube by “Final Post” channel on 21 September 2022. The viral video clip is taken from the first 1 minute 27 seconds of this video.

At 1:57 timestamp, the editor-in-chief of ‘Final post’ explains that this video of journalists interviewing the Bihar government school teachers was a scripted one. He also says that the purpose of this scripted video is to tell audience that the teaching standards at government schools in Bihar is not as low as the media portrays.

Update (16 September 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media in which a Muslim cleric is seen performing an exorcism on a woman. The post claims that the woman is a Hindu. The man can be seen dragging the woman, who is lying unconscious, into a room. A few other posts (here, here and here) with the same video are also being shared on social media. Let’s fact-check this video through this article.

Claim: Visuals of a Muslim cleric performing an exorcism on a Hindu woman. Fact: The video is a work of fiction; we have found an extended version of this video which carries a disclaimer stating that the video is imaginary. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

Upon performing a keyword search on the internet, we found an extended version of the video in the viral post which is 11 Minutes 52 Sec. long. This video carries a disclaimer which appears at 11 Minutes 50 Sec. Timestamp, which says, ‘Everything in this video is imaginary..’

The man who plays the role of a Muslim cleric in this video was also part of another scripted video that we debunked earlier. With this evidence, we can conclude that a scripted video is being shared as real on social media.

Update (15 September 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media in which a woman steals a mobile phone from a man standing at a metro train door. Let’s fact-check this video through this article.

Claim: Visuals of a woman stealing a mobile phone from a man standing at a metro train door. Fact: The video is a work of fiction; we found an extended version of this video which carries a disclaimer stating that the video is entirely fictional. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

We saw a link that says ‘watch more original videos by Solanki Bhai Prank’ under the post’s description. Clicking on it led us to a Facebook page of a digital content creator named Solanki Bhai Prank. We looked for the viral video on this page but did not find it here. Searching on the internet with relevant keywords led us to an Instagram page of the video creator, in which an extended version of the video from the viral post was uploaded.

The extended version contains a disclaimer stating that the video is only for entertainment purposes. Hence, we can conclude that a scripted video made for entertainment purposes is being shared as an original one in the viral post.

Update (09 September 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media, where a few masked men can be seen along with kids who seem to be lying down in an unconscious state on the floor. We also found that similar posts (here and here) are doing rounds on social media. Let’s fact-check this video through this article.

Claim: Visuals of child kidnappers with few children who were taken hostage Fact: The video is a work of fiction; we have found an extended version of this video which carries a disclaimer stating that the video is completely fictional. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

We have searched on the internet with relevant keywords and found two Facebook posts (here and here) with an extended version of the video from the viral post. In the extended version, a person secretly records what seems like a gang carrying kids that they abducted into the woods. But these videos are marked with two disclaimers, one that appears at 0:29 and the other at 1:27 timestamp. They state that the video is completely fictional, so we can confirm that this is not an actual incident.

Update (05 September 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media, in which a burqa-clad woman helps a Hindu woman by giving her burqa as the Hindu woman’s saree gets stuck in a bike. Let’s fact-check the claim in this post.

Claim: A burqa-clad woman helped a Hindu woman in front of a temple. Fact: This is a scripted video created by a YouTube channel named ‘3RD EYE,’ and they are known for their scripted and fictional content on YouTube. The video does not show an actual incident. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

We searched the internet for relevant keywords to find more information about the incident. We found that multiple users on Facebook and Twitter have uploaded the same video. We refined our search and were able to find a video uploaded by a YouTube channel named ‘3RD EYE.’ They uploaded this video on 23rd August 2022; there is a disclaimer at the end: ‘ This reel life video footage published only for educating the public …Characters in this video are entertainment and education purpose.’ In the about section of their YouTube channel, they have written– “Welcome to 3rd eye channel. Sometimes funny, sometimes serious, always shareable, with lots of Action, drama, comedy and informatic.”

Another video is also being shared on social media, which claims that a 60-year-old man married a 20-year-old girl. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: A 60-year-old man married a 20-year-old girl. Fact: The people featured in this video are part of two other videos, which are fictional. The video does not show an actual incident. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

We have done a keyword search on the internet to know more details and found a few social media posts (here, here and here) with the same video. Further, we refined our search and found two videos (here and here) on YouTube with a similar concept: an older man marrying a young lady. Both the fictional videos contain a disclaimer that they are scripted. Both videos feature the same male actor as the viral post, and one video features the same woman from the viral post.

Update (02 September 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media, which claims that a 65-year-old lady married a 19-year-old boy. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: 65-year-old old lady married a 19-year-old boy. Fact: The video shared in the post is scripted. The same couple is featured in two more fictional videos that are uploaded to social media. One of those is posted by a video creator and a prankster named Shivam Pandey on Facebook. The video does not show a real incident. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.

We searched on the internet with relevant keywords to know more details about the video and were led to two more similar videos. These videos posted on Facebook feature the same couple, and the guy is wearing a different costume in those videos. They can be watched here and here.

The titles of these videos translated to English are ‘55-year-old old lady marries a young boy,’ and ‘Old lady married young boy’, respectively. The second video was uploaded to Facebook by a video creator known as Shivam Pandey. The video has a disclaimer at the 0:14 Sec. mark, and it reads, ‘This video made for entertainment purpose only …all the characters in this video are fictional..’ The about section of Shivam Pandey’s Facebook page reads, ‘My purpose of making this page is to always make my viewer laugh and happy.’

Update (17 August 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media claiming it as visuals of school students romancing in the streets of Delhi. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of school students romancing in the streets of Delhi. Fact: The video shared in the post is a scripted one. A video creator named Ankur Jatuskaran produced this video for entertainment. This video does not show a real incident in Delhi. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video, an extended version of the video was found in a few Facebook and YouTube posts published in July 2022. At 0:31 minutes of this 5:39 minutes full video, one could see a disclaimer stating it to be a scripted drama created for entertainment and educational purposes. In the last few minutes of this video, we could see a man pouring a bucket full of water on students. He is Ankur Jatuskaran, a video creator who publishes scripted and prank videos on his social media handles. According to the ‘News Mobile’ fact-check article, Ankur Jatuskaran published this video on his Facebook page on 25 July 2022. But currently, this video is not available on any of his social media handles. A few other scripted videos published by Ankur Jatuskaran can be seen here, here and here.

Update (09 August 2022):

Post:

Another video is being shared on social media claiming it as the visuals of a bride escaping from her wedding ceremony with her boyfriend. This video shows a boy applying Sindoor on the bride’s forehead and taking her away from the marriage event while the old aged groom is engaged in a conversation with others at the event. News websites like ‘ABP’ have also published this video with a similar claim. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a boyfriend applying sindoor on the bride’s forehead and taking her away from the marriage ceremony.



Fact: The video shared in the post is a scripted one. A video creator named Divya Vikram published this video on her social media handles. The video does not show a real incident. Hence, the claim made in the post is False.

On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video, a video with similar visuals was found published on a Facebook page named Divya Vikram on 08 July 2022. Divya Vikram is a video creator who publishes scripted dramas on her Facebook and other social media handles. Divya Vikram published another video portraying the same drama but showing a different bride. The actors shown in the video were seen in several other scripted dramas published on the Facebook and YouTube handles of Divya Vikram. A few of those videos can be seen here, here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the video shared in the post is a scripted one.

Update (19 July 2022):

Post:

A video is being shared on social media with the claim that it shows a few women partying at home with alcohol while their parents were away. It is shared as a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of women partying at home with alcohol. Fact: The posted video does not show a real incident. It is a scripted video. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

An extended version of the same video was posted by actress Poonam Bajwa on her official Facebook page. In that video, there is a disclaimer at the end saying that it was made for educational purposes. She also wrote the following in the description – “Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”. Also, the same video can be found on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel, which regularly posts scripted videos.

Post:

A video is being shared on social media with the claim that it shows children being kidnapped by a gang. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of children being kidnapped by a gang. Fact: The posted video is a scripted one. It does not show a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

The extended version of the same video was found to be uploaded by the ‘Social Message’ YouTube channel, which regularly posts such scripted videos. Also, on the posted video, one can observe a disclaimer saying – “This video is a complete fiction all the events in the video are scripted and made for awareness purpose only….”

Update (13 JULY 2022):

A video is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it shows a soldier catching his wife having an affair with a neighbour. The video is being shared as a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video shows a soldier catching his wife having an affair with a neighbour. Fact: The posted video is a scripted one. It does not show a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

An extended version of the same video was posted by actress Priya on her official Facebook page. In that video, there is a disclaimer at the end saying that it was made for educational purposes. She also wrote the following in the description – “Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”. The same building can be seen in other such scripted videos here. Also, the same video can be found on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel, which regularly posts scripted videos.

Update (01 JULY 2022):

A video is being shared on social media with a claim that it shows a man doubting a burqa-clad woman for having an affair. It is shared as a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video shows a man doubting a burqa-clad woman for having an affair. Fact: The video in the post does not show a real incident. It is a scripted video. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

The same actor can be found in multiple such videos. In some of the videos, he can also be seen wearing the same dress. Those videos can be seen here and here. One of the videos featuring him describes in the title that the video was made for social awareness. The actor’s photo can be also found on the ‘Street Help’ YouTube channel, which had been regularly posting such scripted videos.

Update (27 JUNE 2022):

A video is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it shows a 50-year-old woman marrying a 21-year-old boy. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video shows a 50-year-old woman marrying a 21-year-old boy. Fact: The video in the post is a scripted one. It does not show a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

When we searched with keywords on the internet, the same video was found to be uploaded by the ‘Tanya Dhawan’ YouTube channel. Many such scripted videos can be seen on that channel. At 12 seconds in the posted video (also, in the YouTube video) one can also see a disclaimer saying – “This content made in this video should be considered for entertainment purposes only……”. So, the incident in the video is not real.

Update (24 JUNE 2022):

A video is being shared on social media with a claim it shows a soldier rescuing a child from an accident. It is being shared as a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a soldier rescuing a child from an accident. Fact: The posted video is a scripted one. It does not show a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

The extended version of the same video was found to be uploaded by the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel. In the description of the video, it can be read that it is a scripted video. Also, at the end of the extended version of the video, there is a disclaimer saying that it was made for educational purposes. Many such scripted videos can be found on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel.

Another similar scripted video with actors wearing the same dresses can be found to be uploaded by actress Priya. That video also has the same disclaimer.

Update (23 JUNE 2022):

A video is being shared on social media with a claim that it shows a father-in-law who married his daughter-in-law after his son’s death. The video is being shared as a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a father-in-law who married his daughter-in-law after his son’s death. Fact: The posted video does not show a real incident. It is a scripted video. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

When we searched for the video with some keywords, an extended version of the same video was found on Facebook. At the end of that video, there is a disclaimer saying – “Everything in this video is imaginary”. Also, the following Facebook recommendation comes with the post – “Watch more original videos by: Rahul Expose”.

On the Facebook page of ‘Rahul Expose’, many such scripted videos with the same girl can be seen. Also, the sequel to the posted video can be found on his page. The same disclaimer can be found at the end of the sequel video too.

Update (18 MAY 2022):

A video is being shared on social media with a claim that it shows two army women helping an injured pregnant woman. It is interpreted as a real incident by many social media users. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of two army women helping an injured pregnant woman. Fact: The posted video is a scripted one. It does not show a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

If one sees the full video, at the end of the posted video, there is a disclaimer saying that it was made for educational purposes. Also, Actress Priya posted the same video on her office Facebook page and wrote the following in the description- “Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”.

Update (13 MAY 2022):

A video is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it shows a policewoman helping a schoolgirl who is on her periods, on the road . The video is being shared as a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video shows a policewoman helping a schoolgirl who is on her periods. Fact: The posted video does not show a real incident. It is a scripted video. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

The extended version of the same video was found to be uploaded by the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel. In the title of the video, it can be read that it is a social awareness video. Also, at the end of the extended version of the video, there is a disclaimer saying that it was made for educational purposes. Many such scripted videos can be found on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel.

Update (09 MAY 2022):

A video is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it shows a Muslim couple helping a Hindu man who fell sick suddenly and suffered from fits on the road. It is shared as a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video shows a Muslim couple helping a Hindu man who fell sick suddenly and suffered from fits on the road. Fact: The posted video does not show a real incident. It is a scripted video. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

An extended version of the same video was posted by actress Priya on her official Facebook page. In that video, there is a disclaimer at the end saying that it was made for educational purposes. She also wrote the following in the description – “Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”. Also, the same video (with a different date on the video) can be found on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel, which regularly posts scripted videos.

Update (04 MAY 2022):

A video is being shared on social media with a claim that it shows a real incident where a person dressed as Hanuman can be seen helping a Muslim woman pick up fruits. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a person dressed as Hanuman helping a Muslim woman. Fact: The video is a scripted video. It does not show a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

Actress Poonam Bajwa posted the same video on her office Facebook page and wrote the following in the description- “Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”. At the end of the video, there is a disclaimer saying that it was made for educational purposes. Also, the same video (with a different timestamp) can be found on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel, which regularly posts scripted videos.

Update (28 APRIL 2022):

A social media post accompanying a video of a Hindu priest catching a thief who stole the wallet of a Muslim woman offering namaz on a footpath is being widely circulated. The video is being shared as a real incident which is evident from the comments section.

Claim: Video of a Hindu priest catching a thief who stole wallet of a Muslim woman offering namaz on a footpath. Fact: This is a scripted and does not show any real incident. Popular Telugu actress Priya shared this video initially on her Facebook page. She categorically mentioned in the post that it is scripted video and is made for educational purpose. Moreover at the end of the video there is a clear disclaimer stating that it is a scripted video. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

This is a scripted video and was initially shared by a popular Telugu actress Priya. In the post that shared this video, she clearly mentioned that it is a scripted drama made for educational purposes.

Further, at the end of the video, there is a disclaimer stating that it is a scripted drama. The actress has shared many such scripted dramas through her Facebook page.

Update (14 APRIL 2022):

A video is being shared on social media with a claim that it shows a few strangers offering food to a woman and robbing her at a bus stop. It is being shared as a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video shows a few strangers offering food to a woman and robbing her at a bus stop. Fact: It is a scripted video. The video does not show a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

Actress Priya has posted an extended version of the same video on her official Facebook page. In that video, there is a disclaimer at the end saying that it was made for educational purposes. She also wrote the following in the description – “Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”. Also, the same video can be found on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel, which regularly posts scripted videos.

Update (13 APRIL 2022):

A video is being shared on social media with a claim that it shows a case of love jihad. In the video, it can be seen that Salman (a Muslim) tries to marry a Hindu girl by posing himself as Rahul (a Hindu). Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video shows a case of love jihad. Salman poses as Rahul to marry a Hindu girl. Fact: The posted video does not show a real incident. It is a scripted video. The video was first posted on Facebook by ‘Basant Jangra’, an artist page. Many similar scripted videos can be seen on that page. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

The same video was found to be first posted on Facebook by ‘Basant Jangra’, an artist page, in February 2022. A disclaimer saying that the page posts scripted videos, not real incidents, can be seen in some other videos posted on the page. Those videos can be seen here and here.

Artist Basant Jangra can be seen in the posted video. Also, the same bride dress can be seen in a few other videos posted on the page.

Update (01 APRIL 2022):

A video is being shared on social media with a claim that it shows a Muslim fruit seller cheating customers. In the video, it can be seen that the fruit seller removes some fruits after weighing them. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a Muslim fruit seller cheating customers. Fact: The posted video is a scripted one. It does not show a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

The same video was found to be uploaded ‘Raju Bharti’ page on Facebook. Many similar scripted videos featuring him can be found on his page. Also, a link to his YouTube channel – ‘Bharti Prank’ can be found in the ‘About’ section of his Facebook page. The posted scripted video can be also found on that YouTube channel. The description of the ‘Bharti Prank’ channel is given as – “This channel is related to fun and entertainment”.

Update (31 MARCH 2022):

Post:

A video is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it shows a Muslim woman giving her juice and some money to a sadhu. Many people are believing the visuals to be a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a Muslim woman giving her juice and some money to a sadhu. Fact: The posted video does not show a real incident. It is a scripted video. The video was made for educational purposes. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

Actress Hamsa Nandini has posted an extended version of the same video on her official Facebook page. In that video, there is a disclaimer at the end saying that it was made for educational purposes. She also wrote the following in the description – “Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”.

Post:

Another video is being shared on social media with a claim that it shows a Muslim tailor misbehaving with women. These visuals are also being seen as related to a real incident by many people. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a Muslim tailor misbehaving with women. Fact: The video is a scripted video. It does not show a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

Actress Priya has posted the same video on her office Facebook page and wrote the following in the description- “Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”. Also, the same video can be found on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel, which regularly posts scripted videos.

Update (29 MARCH 2022):

A video of a family being helped by two army men is being shared widely on social media. In the video, the army men can be seen offering their bike to the stranded family. People are believing that the visuals show a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of army men helping a stranded family by giving them their bike. Fact: The posted video is a scripted one. In the extended version of the video, there is a disclaimer at the end saying that it was made for educational purposes. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

The extended version of the same video can be found to be uploaded by actress Hamsa Nandini on her official Facebook page in March 2021. In that video, there is a disclaimer at the end saying that it was made for educational purposes. She also wrote the following in the description – “Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”. A similar scripted video from the same location can be seen here.

Update (23 MARCH 2022):

A video of two children helping a fruit seller move her cart uphill is being shared widely on social media. Many people are believing that the visuals show a real incident. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of two children helping a fruit seller move her cart uphill. Fact: It is a scripted video. The extended version of the video has a disclaimer at the end saying that it was made for educational purposes. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

Actress Poonam Bajwa has posted the extended version of the same video on her official Facebook page. At the end of the video, there is a disclaimer saying that it was made for educational purposes. Also, in the description, it was written – “Thank you for watching! Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!”. The same video can be also found on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel, which regularly posts scripted videos.

Update (11 MARCH 2022):

Another similar video is being shared on social media with the tag – ‘Respect Army’. However, we found the same video on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel, which regularly posts scripted videos for social awareness. This video was also posted with the title – “THIS IS HEART TOUCHING💖🙏 | Army Person Helped alone Girl | Social Awareness Video By 3rd Eye“. So, it is also a scripted video.

Published (08 MARCH 2022):

Of late, many videos are being shared on social media with a claim that they show CCTV visuals of real incidents. Most of them are shared with generic titles like – ‘Respect Women’, ‘Respect Army’. They have been viewed and liked by millions of users on social media. In the comments section of videos, one can see that the people are believing them to be real incidents. Let’s fact-check the claims made in the posts.

Post 1:

Claim: Video of an army man helping a woman by changing her car tyre. Fact: It is a scripted video. The video does not show a real incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

At the bottom of the video, it can be seen that it is written – ‘COPYRIGHT BY 3RD EYE’. The extended version of the same video can be found on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel. In the title, it is written that it is a social awareness video. Also, at the end of the video, there is a disclaimer saying – “This reel life video footage published only for the purpose of educating the public by making them understand how the real-world situations will be and picturized to educate public. Characters in this video are entertainment and education purpose.” Many such scripted videos can be seen on the ‘3RD EYE’ YouTube channel.

Post 2:

Claim: Video of a burqa-clad woman helping another woman who was having periods on road. Fact: This video was also posted by the ’3RD EYE’ YouTube channel with a disclaimer. It is a scripted video. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

The extended version of the same video can be seen on the ’3RD EYE’ YouTube channel with the same disclaimer as above.

Other posts:

Previously, when similar scripted videos were shared as real incidents, FACTLY debunked those videos and written fact-check articles, which can be read below:

To sum it up, scripted videos shot for informative purposes are being shared as real incidents.