Amid the regular fuel price hikes over the last two weeks and the consequent inflation in the prices of other commodities, a video of the Minister of Women and Child Development Smriti Irani has gone viral with some shocking claims.

Those sharing the video claimed that Irani, who regularly criticised the UPA government for fuel price hikes back in the day, lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the same now.

advertisement

In the viral video, Irani could be heard saying in Hindi, “Our Prime Minister Narendra Modi helped the poor by increasing fuel prices and at the same time, played a masterstroke against the rich. The rich often drive cars. We have ensured the safety of the poor people’s feet so that they can use their carts and drive their rickshaws”

Archived versions of some similar claims can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this claim to be false as the video was doctored. The original video is more than a year old and in it, Irani, speaking in English, criticised Rahul Gandhi.

AFWA Probe

After looking closely at the video, we noticed that Irani’s words and the movement of her lips did not match one another. The voice appeared to have been added to the video.

We searched for news reports to check if she had justified the fuel price hikes but found nothing to support that claim.

ANI’s logo was visible on the microphone. So, we took that as a clue and performed advanced keyword searches on Twitter. Results took us to the original video tweeted by the news agency on February 24, 2021.

The tweet said, “‘The spiteful & vengeful politics of Rahul Gandhi which insults not only the people & voters of Amethi but seeks to create a divide between the north & south India is to be condemned by every Indian citizen,’ says Union Minister Smriti Irani.”

"The spiteful & vengeful politics of Rahul Gandhi which insults not only the people & voters of Amethi but seeks to create a divide between the north & south India is to be condemned by every Indian citizen," says Union Minister Smriti Irani pic.twitter.com/A3kuQ93lDZ — ANI (@ANI) February 24, 2021

In the ANI video, Irani spoke in English and not in Hindi. Thus, it was clear that the audio in the viral video was added later.

Hence, we concluded that the viral clip of Smriti Irani was doctored — she did not praise the fuel price hikes as a masterstroke against the rich.