Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb has recently resigned from the post of Chief Minister. The Chief Minister of the state is Manik Saha. After the resignation of Biplab Deb, social media was flooded with many posts regarding his resignation. Some people pulled up Deb for his old statements, while some people fake statements of his, which he had not given.

The statement of Biplab Deb is going viral on all the platforms of social media. Further, sharing the post users are claiming that after he resigned, targeting PM Modi, he said that the country is being ruined under the leadership of PM Modi. A social media user named Deepak Tanwar wrote on Facebook – ” Breaking news – BJP’s Chief Minister of Tripura resigned, said the country is being ruined under the leadership of Modi! ,

Meanwhile, another user named Abhinav Shukla wrote – “ The Chief Minister of Tripura has resigned, saying the country is being ruined under the leadership of Modi …”

Similarly, many other users also shared the same post and made the same claim.

Fact Check:

We did a Google search to verify the viral statement. But, we did not find any such statement from Biplab, in which he has given about the ruin of the country under the leadership of Modi. Then, we checked his social media account, but we did not find any such statement there.

However, Biplab Deb congratulated Manik Saha on becoming the next Chief Minister of the state and praised Narendra Modi. He wrote- ” Hearty congratulations and best wishes to @DrManikSaha 2 ji on being elected the leader of the legislature party. I believe that PM Shri @narendramodi Tripura will prosper under G’s vision and leadership . ,

Congratulations and best wishes to @DrManikSaha2 ji on being elected as the legislature party leader. I believe under PM Shri @narendramodi Ji's vision and leadership Tripura will prosper. pic.twitter.com/s0VF1FznWW — Biplab Kumar Deb (MODI Ka Parivar) (@BjpBiplab) May 14, 2022

Moreover, Biplab Kumar Deb has retweeted many tweets of PM Modi.

Conclusion:

Our investigation revealed that he has not given the statement of ” the country is being ruined under the leadership of PM Modi ” . Therefore, social media users are making the false statement of Biplab Deb viral.

Claim- Biplab Deb said- the country is being ruined under the leadership of Modi

Claimant- Social media users

Fact Check – Misleading