Spread the truth:

Claim: “प्रधानमंत्री मोदी की भाभी भगवती बेन मोदी का कल अमदाबाद के सिविल सरकारी अस्पताल में बीमारी से मृत्यु हो गई । वो प्रहलाद भाई मोदी की धर्मपत्नी. देवर प्रधानमंत्री है और भाभी सरकारी अस्पताल में बीमारी की दवाई करवा रही थी। ऐसा देशभक्त कुटुम्ब कहा मिलेगा । प्रभु उनकी आत्मा को सदगति प्रदान करे ।”

Translation: “PM Modi’s sister-in-law Bhagwatiben has died due to an illness at the Ahmedabad’s civil government hospital. She was the wife of Prahlad Modi. Brother in law is the Prime Minister of the country, and sister-in-law was admitted at a government hospital. Will you get a more nationalist family? May she rest in peace.”

A post is going viral with the image of PM Narendra Modi’s sister-in-law Bhagwatiben Modi is going viral on social media that she has died recently in Ahmedabad. The posts are being shared widely on various social media.

FACEBOOK

The particular post has received over 3.7K shares and 10K reactions.

Archive

Archive

TWITTER

The post is being shared on Twitter widely,

Archive

Archive

The post was widely shared on Twitter,

Truth

Upon searching for Bhagwatiben Modi on Google and after doing a reverse image search it was found that Bhagwati Modi, sister-in-law of PM Modi died in May, 2019.

Various media houses reported the same,

According to the report by Ahmedabad Mirror she was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, and other ailments and died due to cardiac arrest. The report was published on May 2, 2019

The Indian Express had also reported on the news, the report was published on May 2, 2019.

Amar Ujala also reported the news,

As soon as the news broke out last year, the news had gone viral on social media.

Archive

Therefore it is established that Bhagwatiben Modi, sister-in-law of PM Modi died last year, in May 2019.

The viral claims that she died recently are completely false. It is to be noted that she died in May 2019 due to cardiac arrest, after suffering from diabetes, hypertension, and kidney ailments.

Related