Political parties are leaving no stone unturned for Telangana assembly election scheduled for December 7.



While addressing a rally at Amangal in Ranga Reddy district of Telangana on Sunday, December 2, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Amit Shah claimed that Telangana Congress has promised free electricity only to mosques and churches in the state while leaving out the temples.



Referring to Congress, Shah said "mitron inhone vaada kiya hai masjid aur church ke bijli bill maaf karenge. main unko puchta hoon bhaiya mandir ka kya dosh hai? mandir ke bijli kyu maaf nahi karoge sirf masjid aur church ke hi karoge? [They have promised to waive off electricity bills of mosques and churches. I want to ask why have they left out the temples?]

advertisement

Amit Shah raised the question [watch the video below at 17:00 minutes] about the electricity bills of temples on BJP's official Facebook page.





BJP also echoed Amit Shah on Twitter accusing the Congress and the Telugu Rashtra Samithi (TRS) of minority appeasement.

Congress in its manifesto promised free electricity to Masjids and Churches but not for temples. Both TRS party and Congress are engaged in minority appeasement: Shri @AmitShah https://t.co/BjJykI3uIR #SaffronTelangana pic.twitter.com/T7ya5O3hZO BJP (@BJP4India) December 2, 2018

Several social media users pointed out to Shah that his facts were untrue.

jhooth bolo

fir jhooth bolo

bar bar jhooth bolo

jhooth bolohttps://t.co/ECL1relSrs LIAR-LAMA (@Soutweets) December 2, 2018

Mr. Shah is always in mission of dividing d ppeopl with lies and half truths and never think that there are people who understand his game and d party like congress cannot publish a manifestation like what he says. Just throw d trash if it sticks well and good. This is his way. Gnanaptakasam (@gnanaptakasam) December 2, 2018

India Today Fact Check found Amit Shah's claim to be misleading too. Telangana Congress in its manifesto has promised free electricity supply not only to mosques and churches but also to temples and other places of worship.



This is mentioned under the head 'Religious Affairs' in the People's Manifesto of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee, released in the last week of November.

Screen grab of Telangana Congress's 2018 manifesto | Page 21

Read the full 2018 manifesto of Telangana Congress here.

Telangana Congress reacted to Amit Shah's claim terming it as "fake news".

Fake News Alert:



Is there no better argument to improve your prospects in Telangana? As always, polarise & divide is your policy.



Congress ideology is inclusive & our manifesto covers BC's, SC's, ST's & Minorities.



Do check out our Manifesto before spreading #FakeNews https://t.co/WeLmEgP6A0 Telangana Congress (@INCTelangana) December 2, 2018

A few days ago, there were reports that a draft of Telangana Congress's manifesto promised exclusive sops for minority institutions. The Congress party refuted these reports calling them "fabricated".

Also read | Fact Check: Did Rajasthan Congress workers shout pro-Pakistan slogans?

Also read | Fact Check: No, Vasundhara Raje didn't say confuse voters to secure their votes