On Thursday, just days before elections in Kerala on April 6, Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala released a list of over 4 lakh ‘bogus’ voters, alleging massive discrepancies in the voters’ list. The Election Commission told the high court that it identified only a little over 38,000 such voters.

Amid this, a viral post on social media claims Kerala has 20 lakh illegal Bangladeshi voters. The claim has been shared with an article titled, “Massive electoral fraud detected in Kerala : 20 lakh Bangladeshi immigrants are voters”. The article has been published by a website named “Social Observer”.

advertisement

The verified Twitter handle of social activist Madhu Purnima Kishwar also shared the claim.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found no substantial proof in support of the claim. There is no report by established media houses or academic journals which says Kerala has 20 lakh Bangladeshi voters. The Centre had also made it clear in Lok Sabha that it has no accurate data on the number of illegal immigrants from Bangladesh.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

We first went through the “Social Observer” article shared along with the viral claim. Quoting Stanly Sebastian, an educational entrepreneur, the article says there are 20 lakh Bangladeshis and Rohingya Muslims in Kerala who have ration cards and voter ID cards, and it is these voters who’ll decide which government will rule the state.

However, apart from Sebastian’s quote, the article does not mention any source for this data. We then contacted Sebastian, a Kerala native currently residing in Bangalore.

Speaking to AFWA, Sebastian said from an independent investigation he had conducted, it was revealed that over 20 lakh Bangladeshis with government ID cards reside in Kerala. He asserted that he did not claim all these 20 lakh Bangladeshis would be part of Kerala’s electoral rolls.

“I did not say there are 20 lakh Bangladeshi nationals in Kerala’s electoral rolls. But there must be 20 lakh Bangladeshis with various government ID proofs in the state and many of them must have an election ID,” Sebastian said. However, when AFWA asked for documents to substantiate his claim, he could not provide any.

A total of 2.74 crore voters figure in Kerala’s final electoral roll published by EC. The figure includes 1.37 crore female voters, 1.29 crore male voters and 7.4 lakh first-time voters.

Congress’s Chennithala had recently approached the high court alleging bogus names in the voters’ list. However, it is to be noted that the Opposition has not made any remark about Bangladeshi voters in its complaint to EC or HC.

Chennithala approached the court claiming over 4 lakh multiple entries were found in the voters’ list, and in some cases, a voter is enrolled in more than five booths. The EC maintained only 38,586 duplicate entries were found and most of them were clerical errors that occurred during voters’ list renewal.

Bangladeshis in India

advertisement

According to Census 2011, over 23 lakh Bangladeshi immigrants reside in India. A December 2019 analysis by India Today revealed 76 per cent of them have been staying in India even before 1991, and over the past 30 years, the number of Bangladeshis coming to India has been declining.

According to the United Nations’ International Migrant Stock 2019 report, the number of Bangladeshi immigrants in India is a little more than 30 lakh. This data too reveals that the number of international immigrants and refugees in India has been declining since the 1990s.

In 2019, BJP MP Nitesh Ganga Deb asked in Lok Sabha whether there has been an increase in the number of illegal Bangladeshi settlements in the country in recent years. In response, junior Home minister Nityanand Rai had said the government has no accurate data regarding the number of such immigrants.

To another question on whether the government has received reports indicating heightened presence of illegal immigrants from Bangladesh in Kerala, Rai replied as per information available, no such report has been received from the Kerala government.

advertisement

AFWA then reached out to Irudaya Rajan, an expert in Kerala’s migration patterns. Rajan is Chair Professor, Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs (MOIA) Research Unit on International Migration at the Centre for Development Studies.

“No exact data is available on how many Bangladeshis reside in India, let alone Kerala. If Bangladeshis come and work in Kerala, they claim to be from West Bengal, and nobody then crosschecks their nationality. We are not denying the presence of undocumented Bangladeshis in India, but their number is meagre,” Rajan said.

Benoy Peter, a member of the Working Group on ‘Labour Migration to Kerala’, constituted by the Kerala State Planning Board, and executive director of Kerala-based NGO Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, said in Ernakulam district (which has the highest number of migrants), only two in a thousand would be a Bangladeshi.

“Migration from Bangladesh to Kerala is not substantial compared to other Indian states. In 2018, Kerala had an estimated 35 lakh workers from other states. So it’s not possible for it to have 20 lakh Bangladeshi voters alone. There could be some Bangladeshis coming along with people from Bengal to Kerala. But no proper data is available,” Peter explained.

advertisement

According to a report by “The New Indian Express” published in January 2019, Ernakulam district, the industrial hub of Kerala, has emerged as the critical layover for dozens of Bangladeshis and Rohingyas who plot their illegal migration to Australia, Canada and Europe.

Considering all the evidence, we can clearly say that the claim of Kerala having 20 lakh Bangladeshi voters is misleading.