A post circulating on Facebook says a private hospital in Hyderabad’s Kachiguda area called Sri Rama Krishna Hospital has been sealed after all its staff and patients tested positive for coronavirus.

Facebook page “Youth TV News” shared a picture of the hospital’s exterior and wrote, “Kachiguda... Ramakrishna hospital sealed..the whole hospital staff and patients are positive..” The archived version of the post can be seen here.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The hospital has been functioning normally and none of its staff or patients have tested positive for coronavirus.

To find the truth behind the viral post, we ran a search on the Internet with appropriate keywords and found a video tweeted by a local journalist in which Sri Rama Krishna Hospital owner Dr Hanumanth Rao clarifies on rumours spread about his institution.

In the video, Dr Rao can be heard saying none of the staff and patients in his hospital tested positive for coronavirus. Neither has the hospital been sealed. Sri Rama Krishna Hospital is a maternity and multi-specialty hospital in Hyderabad. It does not have a ward for Covid-19 patients.

Ramakrishna hospital in Kachiguda has neither been sealed nor has its staff tested positive for COVID19. Here is a clarification from the hospital administration. pic.twitter.com/jpo5n5o7Ei— Rizwan Journalist (@Qadrisyedrizwan) June 8, 2020

We contacted Dr Rao and he reiterated the same to us. He said the hospital is functioning normally and as per usual timings. The hospital management has also put up a notice outside the premises saying, “Attention. Please do not believe rumours. Hospital funtioning normally. Timings: 10 am to 6 pm.”

Till the filing of this story, as per latest data available on the website of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Telangana reported a total of 4,484 coronavirus cases and 174 deaths.

But none of the staff and patients at Sri Rama Krishna Hospital in Hyderabad’s Kachiguda area have tested positive for coronavirus. Neither has the hospital been sealed as is circulating on Facebook.