A video of Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla, speaking at the World Economic Forum, is being circulated on social media platforms. It claims that while speaking, he said that by 2023, he wish to reduce the world population by 50%.

The video is being shred with the caption: “2023 तक हम विश्व में लोगों की संख्या को 50% कम कर पाएंगे! यह हमारा एक अहम गोल या मकसद था!’* *वर्ल्ड इकोनॉमिक फोरम (WEF) के मंच से साफ-साफ!* *सवाल है कैसे करेंगे ? क्यों करेंगे ?**सवालात पूछने बजाए सामने बैठे लोग तालियाँ बजा रहे!!”

(English translation: By 2023, we will be able to reduce the number of people in the world by 50%! This was an important goal of ours! From the forum of the World Economic Forum (WEF)! The question is how will you do it? Why would you? Instead of asking questions, people sitting in front are clapping.)

In the video, Bourla can be heard saying: “I think that is really fulfilling of a dream that we had together with our leadership team when we started in ’19. The first week we met in January of ’19 in California to set up the goals for the next five years and one of them was by 2023, we will reduce the number of people in the world by 50 per cent. I think today, this dream is becoming a reality.”

The above video can be seen here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the post and found the video to be altered.

We ran a keyword search but did not find any credible media report corroborating the viral claim. Had Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla actually said it, it would have made headlines.

We then scanned through the YouTube channel of the World Economic Forum for the original video, and found that the video of the conversation between Klaus Schwab, WEF Founder and Chairman and Albert Bourla, which was uploaded on May 25, 2022.

We listened to the video carefully and found that the viral clip was taken from 2:34 min into the video and was edited to create a false narrative.

In the original video, he says: “I think that is really fulfilling of a dream that we had together with our leadership team when we started in ’19. The first week we met, in January of ’19 in California, and set up the goals for the next five years. And one of them was by 2023 we will reduce the number of people in the world that cannot afford our medicines by 50%. I think today this dream is becoming reality.”

The line ‘that cannot afford our medicines‘ was removed from the original video to make it seem like he is talking about reducing the world population.

Hence, from the above fact check, it is clear that the viral video is edited and is being shared with a false claim.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news