While Donald Trump is yet to acknowledge Joe Biden as the United States President-elect, the latter’s win margin is heading towards a record 80 million votes. Biden has also started the groundwork for his administration by making a few important appointments to his White House team.

Amid this, a video of two men chanting Indian Vedic mantras is circulating on social media with the claim that they were recited at the White House before the new American President entered office.

advertisement

The caption of the video says, “White House first day before entering the New American PRESIDENT, How they perform Indian Slocas invocking Almighty of the UNIVERS for the GOOD happening of the Countrymen.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is from 2014. The event was organised at the White House by an American Hindu organisation to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi’s 145th birth anniversary.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.



AFWA probe

Closely observing the video, we found the text “Dharmic Dialogue: Seva and Social Justice” written on the white screen behind the two men chanting the mantras.

Taking a cue from this, we did a reverse image search of key frames from the video with appropriate keywords and found the same video uploaded on October 14, 2014, by a verified Facebook account.

Part of the video caption says, “Jeffrey Erhard and Robbie Erhard started off the fourth annual Hindu American Seva Communities Conference with the first anuvakam of Sri Rudram Namakam.”

The caption further says the event was held at the White House on October 2, 2014.

On further search, we found a similar video captured from a different angle on the YouTube channel of Hindu American Seva Communities (HASC), an organisation of American Hindus.

A white banner with “Hindu American Seva Communities” written on it is clearly visible in this version of the video. Text superimposed on the video also confirmed that the event was held by HASC on October 2, 2014.

We also found a press note about the event on the HASC website.

“The Hindu American Seva Communities (HASC) Fourth Annual White House Seva Conference took place on October 2nd, 2014. This year’s conference, “Dharmic Dialogue: Seva and Social Justice”, marked the 145th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi,” reads the press note.

The press note also mentions the Erhard family which began the conference with an invocation of Mahatma Gandhi’s favorite prayers.

We further found a few reports from October 2014 regarding the HASC conference at the White House.

advertisement

Moreover, the White House, the official residence and workplace of the US President, is still occupied by Trump, and Biden is expected to be sworn in only in January 2021.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral video is from a conference held by the Hindu American Seva Communities at the White House in 2014 and has nothing to do with welcoming the new US President.