Earlier this month, heavy rains led to floods in the southern Thai province of Pattani. Now, images of streets flooded with blue water are viral on social media with the claim that even flood waters are clear in Thailand.

The caption along with one such set of images says, “Today The flood situation in Pattani, Thailand. His water is so clear.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The pictures showing clear blue floodwaters are edited.

Believing the pictures to be true, many social media users have praised the cleanliness of people residing in Thailand. The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Closely observing the images in question, we found that the blue-coloured water has been edited into the pictures of flood waters, which are originally brownish.

We observed portions with brown-coloured muddy flood waters left unedited on different images in the viral post. The pattern of blue water also remains the same in all the images.

In one of the images, the water seen through a bike wheel was edited to blue, but it has been missed out in the subsequent image.

In fact, the blue colour of the flood water in the viral posts remains the same even after sunset.

We also checked media reports from Thailand on the Pattani floods.

In none of the reports, the flood waters look blue as seen in the viral images. Here is an aerial view of Pattani with muddy flood water flowing through farmlands and residential areas.

We also found reports by Malaysian websites that called out the viral images as edited.

A video report on the Pattani floods uploaded on January 9, 2021, on the verified YouTube channel of Thai news agency MCOT can be seen below.

Searching through the name of a shop whose board can be seen in one of the viral images, we were able to confirm that the pictures were indeed taken from the streets of Pattani.

We found the shop “KASOH BOOM” on the website “Find Glocal”, confirming that it is a clothing store in Pattani. We can also find name boards in Thai language in several other images in the viral post.

However, it is clear that the pictures in circulation are edited and the claim that flood waters in Thailand’s Pattani appeared blue is misleading.

advertisement

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Conspiracy theory claims Covid-19 vaccine caused new strain in UK

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Viral post claiming death of 17 female docs in Karnataka bus crash is misleading