A video of a military exercise is doing the rounds on social media, with the claim that Pakistan should fear the might of the Indian Army.

The claim that the video belongs to the Indian Army is false. India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is from Russia.

The video was shared by Facebook page CM Yogi Adityanath’ a fan club page of the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. The page has more than half a million followers. The Hindi translation of the message attached with the video reads: The valour of the Indian Army will give Pakistan sleepless nights.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Screenshot: Facebook

The video was viewed more than 28,000 times and had received over 1,400 reactions within hours of its release.

A Facebook page called 'Jai Mata Di' had also posted this video on Monday with the same claim. From just this page, around 96,000 users watched the video and it was shared by more than 300 Facebook users.

Screenshot: Facebook

Looking at the video carefully, India Today’s AFWA found that it is actually from Russia and was shot on the occasion of Vostok 2018.

Vostok 2018 was a large-scale military exercise that was held in the eastern part of Russia from September 11-17, 2018. China and Mongolia also participated in this military exercise.

A simple YouTube search confirms the fact that this video belongs to the Vostok 2018 military exercise. A verified YouTube account Military Forces XXI century’ had posted the video on September 16 last year.

It could be seen in the video that the military vehicles and helicopters bore the red colour star which is the logo of the Russian air force.

The viral video is a compilation of snippets from the military exercise larger video. The order of the snippets in the video posted by the Yogi Adityanath fan club page was different. AFWA took screenshots of those snippets to confirm that both the videos were same.

Though India has one of the largest defence forces in the world, this particular video is not of the Indian Army.