A shocking CCTV footage of a two-wheeler blowing to smithereens is circulating on social media with the claim that this was how a battery-operated scooter exploded while a man was riding it.

Several Facebook users posted the 30-second video with a caption in Hindi which translates to, “Battery scooter burst while riding”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this is a month-old incident that took place in Tamil Nadu’s Viluppuram district. The man and his son were carrying firecrackers which exploded, leading to the deaths of both.

advertisement

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse image search, we found that the viral video was published on several news websites in November.

As per these reports, on November 4, the day of Diwali, a 35-year-old man and his seven-year-old son met a tragic end when the country-made crackers they were carrying in their two-wheeler exploded near a barricade near the Tamil Nadu-Puducherry border. Several other people were also injured in the blast.

The CCTV footage of the incident went viral on social media.

Explaining the reason behind the explosion, an investigating officer told NDTV that the boy was seated on two bundles of firecrackers kept tightly tied in the front of the two-wheeler. “We believe that friction and pressure led to the explosion. The sudden appearance of the other two-wheelers from the opposite side could have led to a jerk, causing friction,” the officer said.

The deceased were identified as Kalainesan and his son Pradesh. They were heading to Viluppuram district to celebrate Diwali at Kalainesan’s mother-in-law’s place after procuring country-made crackers from neighbouring Puducherry.

Thus, it can be concluded that the viral claim saying a battery-operated scooter exploded during a ride is misleading since it does not tell the entire story. The man and his son met with the accident due to the explosion of firecrackers that they were carrying in the scooter.

READ | Fact Check: Was there a 1963 movie called ‘The Omicron Variant’? No, this poster was created for fun

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Old picture from Uttarakhand shared as pathetic condition of Gujarat school