Spread the truth:

One Congress supporter, Aditya Chaturvedi and a page “कांग्रेस लाओ, देश बचाओ” posted a photo in which a lady is applying powder to PM Modi’s face. They claimed –

15 लाख रुपये महीने की पगार पर रखी गई मेकअप आर्टिस्ट के हाथों मेकअप कराकर सजधज कर रोने को निकलते नौटंकीबाज।

Translated ” Gimmick-man is going out to cry after being furnished up by a make-up artist employed on 15 Lakh salary”

This post by now has 16703 shares already –

This post by now has 4261 shares already –

15 लाख रुपये महीने की पगार पर रखी गई मेकअप आर्टिस्ट के हाथों मेकअप कराकर सजधज कर रोने के लिए निकलतें हैं —

नौटंकीवाज …..😀😀🙏🙏 pic.twitter.com/FLFYbXzTJP — Bharat Prabhat Party (@sarchana1016) October 22, 2018

Truth

This photo is from March 2016. PM Modi’s wax statue was to be made for Madama Tussads’ Museum. So this was part of the work

India Today –

India Today wrote –

“The famous wax museum Madame Tussauds will soon immortalise Prime Minister Narendra Modi in wax. His wax statue will be unveiled in April this year. Prime Minister Modi had given the museum’s team of artists and experts a sitting at his residence in New Delhi earlier this year.

Here are some key points you need to know about the Madame Tussauds museum:

Sculptor Marie Tussauds, who belonged to Strasbourg, France, founded the museum. Her first sculpture was of philosopher Francois Voltaire

It takes six months, over 250 precise measurements and photographs, more than 1,000 kilogram of wax and 45,000 dollars to make each Madame Tussaud wax portrait

Each wax subject has to sit for several occasions for measurements. If the subject is already dead, then the researchers get the measurements from photographs and written details

Each portrait has its hair washed and makeup retouched every day. Two maintenance teams inspect each statue daily before opening the museum

The first overseas venture of Madame Tussauds was established in Amsterdam in 1970.”

More Fakes –

15 लाख रुपये महीने की पगार पर रखी गई मेकअप आर्टिस्ट के हाथों मेकअप कराकर सजधज कर रोने को निकलते नौटंकीबाज। pic.twitter.com/R7WLulCy0l — M S Alam 🇮🇳 (@alamsartaj1) October 23, 2018

15 लाख रुपये महीने की पगार पर रखी गई मेकअप आर्टिस्ट के हाथों मेकअप कराकर सजधज कर रोने को निकलते नौटंकीबाज। pic.twitter.com/i4VFgZIIon — Ravindra Rajput (@rrajput26) October 24, 2018

Related