Cricket matches between India and Pakistan are always filled with emotions for both countries. On October 24, celebrations broke out in Pakistan after it defeated India in the T20 World Cup match in Dubai.

In this context, an image of what looks like a blast site is going viral on social media with the claim that many were killed and injured when Pakistanis celebrated the victory with bombs instead of crackers. The picture shows clothes, bags and furniture scattered on a street, and the mangled remains of several vehicles.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. While there were instances of injuries during celebratory firing, no major blast or death has been reported from Pakistan. Also, the image shared along with the post is from a 2013 explosion in the country.

AFWA probe

A reverse search revealed that the same picture was carried by multiple media reports as from a 2013 bomb explosion in Quetta, the capital of Pakistan’s Balochistan province.

According to a Reuters report, the incident took place at Quetta’s popular Bacha Khan Chowk market. The bomb was planted close to a parked Frontier Corps vehicle and it killed at least 12 people, including a soldier and a child. Over 60 people were injured.

Reports also said the United Baloch Army, a banned militant group fighting for separation of Balochistan, had claimed responsibility for the blast.

The image was clicked by Quetta-based photographer Naseer Ahmed for Reuters.

A video report about the incident by “IBTimes” can be seen below.

In 2013, Indian media houses had also carried the viral image as from the Quetta bomb blast.

Celebratory firing in Pak injures many

Pakistan erupted in celebrations after they beat arch-rivals India for the first time in a World Cup match. We could not find reports of any major accident during the celebrations.

However, according to a report published on October 25 by Geo TV, around 12 people, including a police officer, were wounded after they got injured from stray bullets during celebratory firing in different parts of Karachi.

Hence, it is clear that the viral image is from a 2013 bomb blast in Pakistan and not related to the recent victory celebrations after Pakistan’s win against India.