A disturbing video from Vietnam showing a man brutally thrash his 6-year old is being peddled in India with a misleading claim that it shows a man in Madhya Pradesh assaulting the child for being a girl.

BOOM found that the incident occurred in Vietnam's Vinh Chau city, where a 27-year-old man was arrested for physically abusing his daughter. The child has been kept under observation at the health center.



The viral clip shows the assaulter tying the minor girl to a pole and thrashing her. In the later part of the video, when the child tries to escape, the man grabs her and continues to beat her.

The footage is viral with the caption which claims that the man inflicted injuries on his daughter after he learnt that a girl child was born in his family. The viral posts have been captioned as, "A daughter was born, so the father could not accept it. After the child was born, the wife was sent to her father's house along with the girl child. They returned a few years later. Then started the series of assaults on the child by her father. The incident is recorded in Madhya Pradesh." (An excerpt from the original caption in Bangla reads: কন্যা সন্তান জন্ম হয়েছে, তাই বাবা মেনে নিতে পারেন নি। জন্মানোর পরই কন্যা সন্তান সমেত বাপের বাড়িতে পাঠিয়ে দেওয়া হয় বৌকে। কিছু বছর পর ফিরে আসে তাঁরা। তারপরই চলে কন্যা সন্তানের উপর বাবার অকথ্য অথ্যাচার। ঘটনাটি মধ্যপ্রদেশের।) Given its disturbing nature, BOOM has chosen not to include the video in the story. View one such viral post here. (Discretion advised)



The video is viral on Facebook with the same narrative.





We also found the same video viral on Twitter.









Fact Check



BOOM was able to ascertain that the video is not from Madhya Pradesh, as the man beating the child is heard speaking in a foreign dialect. We then ran a reverse image search on a few key frames and found news reports of the incident on several Vietnamese websites. According to a news report published in the 'Nogai Lao Dong' website on May 30, 2020, the incident took place in the Lai Hua commune in the city of Vinh Chau, Vietnam. Netizens reacted vehemently when a four-minute video of a child being brutally beaten was posted on Facebook on May 28, 2020. Vinh Chau police rushed to the scene and began the process of identifying the man in the video. The police identified the man as one Danh Da in his late twenties, who was then taken into police custody for investigation. The report further stated that Da, the man in the video, admitted to thrashing his six-year-old daughter. He said, he beat her up because, she had "mixed rice with the sand to play with it". The report further stated that the viral video was recorded by the neighbour of the family, who posted it on Facebook.The date of the incident is however unclear.



The victim was taken to the hospital and treated for her injuries, while her siblings aged 2 and 4, who witnessed the incident, were kept under care of the relatives.