As political instability continues in Maharashtra following a faction of the Shiv Sena rebelling, a questionable video of senior party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut has gone viral on social media. The video, which is recorded on a mobile from a television screen, shows Raut getting emotional and tearing up.

In the nine-second-long viral clip, a journalist can be heard talking about the ongoing political crisis. Several Facebook users have shared this video, saying that had the party continued on Bal Thackeray’s ideals, its leaders would not be crying today.

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this clip was digitally altered using a Snapchat filter.

The archived version of this video can be seen here.

AFWA Probe

We searched for recent interviews of the Shiv Sena MP and came across the original one on YouTube. It was uploaded to Aaj Tak’s YouTube channel on June 22 after Eknath Sinde went to Surat with several rebel MLAs.

Here, in this interview, Raut was spotted talking to the journalist without expressing any such emotions as seen in the viral clip. A screenshot of the same time frame from the original video can be seen below.

The part going viral was clipped from around the seven-second mark. A screenshot from the same timeframe shows Raut without any emotions, making it clear that the viral video was manipulated.

How was it done?

The “crying” filter on Snapchat has recently become very popular had has been used for comedic effect in memes.

When we applied this filter to a video of Salman Khan from the India Today Conclave where he was talking, the results were similar to that in the Raut video.

Subsequently, applying this filter on the face of Sanjay Raut in the original video turned his face pale and emotional with an instant crying effect. A comparison between both faces from the same timeframe can be seen below.

AFWA had earlier debunked a similar video of Lucknow Super Giants skipper KL Rahul that went video during the IPL 2022.

Therefore, we conclude that the viral video of Sanjay Raut crying in front of the camera was made using a Snapchat filter. He wasn’t actually crying.