Amid the ongoing controversy surrounding the Gyanvapi mosque, a portion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech has gone viral with the claim that the Prime Minister has made these comments in regards to Gyanvapi.

In the viral clip, PM Modi can be heard saying ‘hamaare Uttar Pradesh to aisa hai ki yahaan bhee khuda, vahaan bhee khuda, idhar bhee khuda, udhar bhee khuda, jahaan nahin khuda hai, vahaan kal khudega’.

advertisement

This viral clip has been shared by multiple Facebook and Twitter users linking it to the recent reported discovery of Shivling in the Gyanvapi Mosque.

India Today Anti-Fake News War room ( AFWA) has found that PM Modi delivered this speech five years ago in Varanasi and it has no connection with the Gyanvapi controversy. He was referring to the poor development work carried out by then Akhilesh Yadav government in Uttar Pradesh.

The viral posts have been saved here and here.

AFWA probe

We have found the viral clip was taken from an old speech of Prime Minister Modi delivered in Varanasi in 2017 during the Uttar Pradesh assembly election.

The official Twitter handle of BJP had posted the entire speech on March 5, 2017.

The YouTube channel “Narendra Modi” had also uploaded this speech during that time with the caption, “ PM Modi addresses public rally in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh”.

In the YouTube video, the viral portion comes around the 11.50-minute timestamp. If we listen to it from a few minutes before the the viral portion begins, it becomes clear that the Prime minister was referring to the poor development work in Uttar Pradesh under Akhilesh's rule.

We have found the transcript of Modi’s speech from his website.

Here, the Prime minister was referring to the MPs of Uttar Pradesh who used to crack jokes on the Akhilesh government way of development. In this context, the Prime minister said “‘hamaare Uttar Pradesh to aisa hai ki yahaan bhee khuda, vahaan bhee khuda, idhar bhee khuda, udhar bhee khuda, jahaan nahin khuda hai, vahaan kal khudega’.

Soon after this comment, he pointed out the Samajwadi Party government’s inability to repair roads after electric cables were laid underground. He claimed in the speech that as the MP of Varanasi, he had already laid 100 kilometres of underground electric cable in his constituency.

There are multiple news reports published on this speech of Modi in Varanasi delivered on March 5, 2017, which can be read here and here.

advertisement

It is noteworthy that Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party ruled UP from 2012 to 2017. On March 11, 2017, assembly poll results were declared and the BJP came to power with over 300 seats.

Till the time of writing this story, the Supreme Court has maintained that its interim order of May 17 for the protection of the Shivling area and free access to Muslims to offer namaz will continue. At the same time, the apex court has transferred the Gyanvapi mosque case pending before the civil judge, senior division, to the court of the Varanasi district judge for trial.

Thus, it is clear that a five-year-old speech by PM Modi on Varanasi’s development has been falsely linked to the Gyanvapi controversy.