Several farmers’ organisations in Punjab, Haryana and other states are protesting against the Centre’s agricultural reforms. Social media too is full of protest visuals.

Amid this, a video of a group of people holding a mock funeral procession of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is viral with the claim that it was part of the recent farmers’ protests in Haryana. The Hindi caption along with the video translates to, “It has started. There was a huge protest against Saheb in Haryana, but no godi media dared to show this.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The video is more than three years old and doctored.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

The protest

In the video, the protesters can be heard sloganeering against PM Modi and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Hindi. Using InVID and relevant keywords, we could trace back the earliest version of the video to 2017.

However, this version of the video does not have the shouting and sloganeering in Hindi. Instead, at around 33 seconds in the video, one can hear “Ayyayyo Poittare” in Tamil, meaning “Oh he’s gone”. It does not say where exactly the rally was taken out.

The Hindi caption of the video uploaded on January 25, 2017, translates to, “Exasperated, people have taken out Modi’s funeral procession, the first time in India’s history”. In this video, one can hear drum beats, quite typical of a funeral procession in Tamil Nadu.

Taking this as a clue, we searched the Internet for protests in Tamil Nadu in January 2017. We found news reports and YouTube videos of mock funeral processions of PM Modi being taken out and his effigies burnt by pro-Jallikattu protesters in different parts of Tamil Nadu during the month.

Jallikattu, a popular bull-taming sport in Tamil Nadu, was banned by the Supreme Court citing cruelty to animals. However, massive protests forced the Tamil Nadu assembly to pass a bill legalising the Pongal sport.

“Posters were mutilated, effigies burnt and several mock funeral processions of Modi taken out,” says an article by “The News Minute” published on January 20, 2017.

Video used on several occasions

Though we could not authenticate where exactly the procession in the viral video was carried out, we found that over the years, the same video has gone viral with different claims.

In June 2017, the video was shared as an anti-Modi protest by traders in Gujarat. Just two months later, it went viral as a protest against PM Modi and the Haryana government.

advertisement

In 2018, the video was shared as Pakistan celebrating Congress’s victory in three Indian states. “Boom Live” had fact-checked this claim.

We could not find reports from credible sources regarding a mock funeral procession for PM Modi during the recent farmers’ protests in Haryana. Therefore, it can be concluded that the video is at least three years old and doctored, as the original video is in Tamil.