A heart-warming image of a group of black bears feasting on apples in the middle of a jungle has caught the attention of social media users. Many have claimed that the picture is from Kashmir.

Several users on Twitter and Facebook posted the picture saying, “Bears eating apples somewhere in Kashmir”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture is not from Kashmir. These are rescued baby black bears at a wildlife rehabilitation centre called Kilham Bear Center in New Hampshire, United States.

advertisement

The ‘bear’ truth

The post has been shared by multiple Facebook users. While most believed it to be from Kashmir, some raised doubts. Forest conservator and Indian Forest Service officer Irfan Rasool tweeted on one such viral post saying it is not from Kashmir, but Kilham Bear Center in New Hampshire.

Taking this as a clue, we searched the Internet with the help of reverse image and relevant keywords and found a similar video of black bears eating apples in a forest on image-sharing community site “imgur.com”.

The 12-second video was uploaded on September 26 with the title, “Bears purr when they are happy”. The user wrote, “These are rescue baby black bears at a wildlife rehabilitation centre called Kilham Bear Center in New Hampshire. They do important work”.

The user also refers to the original source of the video by pasting a Twitter link along with the post.

Clicking on the Twitter link, we found verified user “John Fusco” posted a longer version of the same video on September 25. As per his Twitter bio, John is a wildlife preservationist and a writer-producer.

Have you ever heard bear cubs make their ‘sound of contentment’? @RaeWynnGrant pic.twitter.com/CpuuM86imw— John Fusco (@JohnFusco12) September 25, 2020

Comparing the viral image with a screengrab of the original video, we confirmed that both were taken at the same location. The mark on the tree trunk, the branches on trees behind, roots jutting out from another tree behind all indicate that the viral image was taken from the same location.

Viral image

Screengrab from original video

As per the website of “Kilham Bear Center”, it mostly rehabilitates and releases injured, orphaned and abandoned black bear cubs brought to them by the New Hampshire Fish and Game Department.

Hence, it is confirmed that the viral image of black bears munching on apples is not from Kashmir but from a bear rehabilitation centre in the United States.