A picture of a broken Shivling from a temple in Jharkhand’s Ranchi is viral on social media with the claim that it was broken by Muslims.

The claim in Hindi translates to, “In Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi, some anti-social elements uprooted the Shivling at a Shiva temple in Upper Bazar’s Rangrez Gali. What do Muslims want to prove by this act? If Hindus do not awaken now, we will have to remain their slaves for the rest of our lives.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The Shivling was damaged by a mentally unstable man and there is no communal angle to the incident.

Similar claims are also viral on Facebook with videos of people protesting outside the temple demanding the arrest of the culprits. The archived versions can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of a keyword search, we found several media reports on the incident.

According to “Newslaundry”, the incident took place on the morning of November 5 at a Shiva temple in Ranchi’s Rangrez Gali in Upper Bazar. Soon after, the temple priest found the Shivling broken and informed locals, who then blocked the roads, demanding the culprits be arrested.

However, according to the report, Ranchi police later examined CCTV footage of nearby shops and found an unidentified mentally unstable man pelting stones at the temple.

Quoting Kotwali in-charge DSP Yashodhara, a report by “Dainik Bhaskar” said police were still searching for the accused and he has been identified by locals as a mentally unstable person staying in Pahari temple, a few kilometres away from Rangrez Gali. The DSP also said no case can be registered against the man since he is mentally unstable.

AFWA reached out to Brij Kumar, head of the local police station, who confirmed that the man who broke the Shivling was mentally unstable.

“It was a mentally unstable man who threw stones at the Shivling. Since it was of smaller size, it uprooted easily. Local vendors saw him roaming around on the morning of November 5. However, hours later, the incident took a communal turn and we had to acquire CCTV footage to pacify the public,” the officer said.

What locals saw

AFWA also spoke to a few local vendors who witnessed the incident. The vendors confirmed to us that the man looked mentally unstable and he was in fact throwing stones at several other places as well.

advertisement

Vikas Singh, a local vendor, said, “The man was quite violent and looked mentally unstable. He pelted stones not just at the temple, but also at shops. He was also trying to throw away the drainage slabs.”

Ankit Kumar, another vendor from Rangrez Gali, said, “On the morning of November 5, we’d informed police about the man who was roaming around in a mentally unstable condition. Protests over the Shivling destruction started later. We had never seen him before and there is no doubt that he was mentally unstable.”

Therefore, it is clear that the Shivling at a temple in Ranchi’s Rangrez Gali was damaged by a mentally unstable man, and there was no communal angle to the incident.