A shocking video has gone viral with the claim that it captured communal violence in broad daylight.

In the CCTV footage, two men could be seen attacking a man even as a crowd was present. One onlooker attempted to stop the assault. However, one of the assailants hit the victim’s head with rocks and stabs him several times. Following that, he also appeared to slit the victim’s throat.

advertisement

Those sharing this graphic video claimed that the assailants were Rohingya Muslims and the victim was a Hindu man.

here and here. Other similar claims can be seenand

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the viral video is from Delhi’s Azadpur and has no communal angle to it. Both the victim and the culprits are Hindu.

AFWA Probe

A reverse search of the keyframes of the video led us to several news reports related to the incident. An India Today report stated that the incident occurred in the afternoon of June 3 in New Delhi’s Azadpur.

According to the report, a quarrel broke out after Narender, the victim, repeatedly approached Rahul Kali to borrow money to buy drugs. Per the police, an annoyed Rahul called his brother Rohit Kali to Mandir Wali Gali in Azadpur. The duo then brutally attacked Narender.

Following the attack, Narender was rushed to the BJRM hospital for treatment. Later, he was referred to a higher centre where he was declared brought dead.

The Indian Express quoted the DCP of Northwest Delhi Usha Rangnani saying, “The accused brothers, Rahul and Rohit Kali, have been arrested. The victim, Narender alias Bunti, and Rahul were previously involved in cases of robbery and snatching.” An FIR has reportedly been filed under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention).

To verify if Rohit and Rahul Kali were Rohingya Muslims, India Today contacted the Adarsh Nagar Police Station, under which Azadpur falls. Inspector Rajendra there confirmed that the incident was not communal and everyone involved — Rohit Kali, Rahul Kali, and Narender — is Hindu.

Thus, we conclude that the incident in the viral video was not communal. Rohit and Rahul Kali, the brothers who brutally killed Narender, are not Rohingya Muslims; they are Hindus.

(Written by Yash Mittal)