A short clip of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has gone viral where she can be heard announcing in Bengali that students of classes 10 and 12 do not have to appear for state board exams in 2021 and they’ll be promoted automatically due to the Covid-19 pandemic.

Several Facebook users have posted the clip where Mamata is saying in Bengali, “Students could not attend schools due to the pandemic, and so, those appearing for the state board exams for classes 10 and 12 need not appear; they will be promoted automatically.”

advertisement

A dance and song saying “Mamata di once more” in Bengali has been added at the end of the video. The clip has been posted with a caption in Bengali that translates to, “There will be no state board exams for classes 10 and 12 this year.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the clip is edited and incomplete. Mamata did make a wrong statement initially, but then rectified it and said that students won’t have to appear for pre-boards conducted by schools and can appear directly for the board exams.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here, here and here.

What CM Mamata Banerjee said about board exams

The 23-second video has a jump cut in between Mamata’s statement. With the help of keyword search, we found the original longer version of the video.

The viral video has been chopped out of a press conference of the Bengal CM, which was posted on her official Facebook page on November 11, 2020. The original video is over 11 minutes long. After three minutes and nine seconds, the viral portion of Mamata’s statement on state board exams appears.

We found that Mamata initially made a wrong statement while reading out the government decision over the state board exams for classes 10 and 12 this year. “Students who will be appearing for classes 10 and 12 board exams will not have to give the exams and they will be automatically allowed,” she said initially.

But then, she clarified immediately and read out the government notification again. “The education department has decided that students appearing for classes 10 and 12 state board exams in 2021 do not have to appear for pre-board exams in their schools. They will be automatically allowed for the board exams,” Mamata said. The decision was taken due to the pandemic situation.

We found that this decision of the West Bengal government was published in several news websites the day after Mamata’s announcement.

The news reports clearly mentioned that the Bengal CM has announced that examinees of state board exams for classes 10 and 12 would not have to appear for selection tests in 2021 as they could not attend schools due to the pandemic, and they will be allowed to sit for state board exams.

Hence, we found that the viral claim saying Mamata has said there will be no state board exams this year is false and the viral clip of the Bengal CM is edited and incomplete.