A set of pictures of a couple in medical costumes is going viral on social media with the claim that the man was a coronavirus patient who fell in love with his lady doctor. The claim says the couple got engaged in the same hospital in Egypt.

One of the pictures shows the man putting a ring on the woman’s finger, and the others show them looking at each other lovingly. “A corona patient fell in lôve with the doctor who treated him.he took two months after that both of them got engaged in the hospital of Egypt,” reads the caption of the viral post.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the photos to be false. The pictures are part of a pre-wedding photoshoot. The couple has been engaged since 2018. Neither was the man infected with coronavirus till the filing of this story.

The misleading post is being widely circulated on social media. The archived version can be seen here. "Punjab Kesari" also carried this cooked-up story in an article.

AFWA investigation

Using a reverse image search, we found some news articles in Arabic on the viral photos. The articles show some more pictures of the couple and say that these are Egyptian doctors Mohamed Fahmy and Aya Mosbah, who got engaged during the coronavirus pandemic in Dar Al-Shifa Hospital in Egypt's Mansourah city.

Nowhere in the articles is it mentioned that either person was infected with the coronavirus.

The photos in the articles carry the signature of "MOHAMED SELIM PHOTOGRAPHY". We traced the profile of Mohamed Selim on Facebook. He had also posted these pictures on his Facebook page on May 25 and tagged Mohamed Fahmy and Aya Mosbah. Selim is a photographer in Mansourah.

We reached out to Selim on WhatsApp, who told us that he clicked these pictures as part of a pre-wedding shoot. He also said that the couple is doing fine, and as of now, none of them is infected with the coronavirus. He said the idea of a pre-wedding photoshoot in a hospital was to spread optimism among people in these trying times.

AFWA also reached out to Mohamed Fahmy on Facebook, but due to the language barrier, we couldn't speak to him. Fahmy's profile says he has been engaged to Aya Mosbah since October 4, 2018.

We also tried to contact Aya Mosbah on Facebook, but till the time of filing this story, she did not reply to our messages. Her response will be updated in the story once received.

Therefore, it is clear that the couple has known each other for long and they have been engaged since 2018. Also, the man does not have coronavirus. The story of a Covid-19 patient falling in love and later getting engaged with his lady doctor, using the viral pictures, is made up.