Did Mark Zuckerberg say "Jai Shri Ram" is written on Facebook more than 200 crore times each day? This is what is being claimed by social media users as they share a picture collage of Zuckerberg and Lord Ram.

One such claim posted on Facebook reads, "Mark Zuckerberg claims that each and every day at least 200 CRORES "Jai Shri Ram" are written on Facebook. Let's add a few more thousands here please. Jai Shri Ram Jai Shri Ram Jai Shri Ram!!"

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The Facebook CEO has not made any such comment regarding "Jai Shri Ram".

Similar claims were made by multiple social media users earlier this month around the time of Ram temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the temple on August 5.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

We could not find any credible source reporting that Zuckerberg made such a statement on "Jai Shri Ram".

Also, neither Facebook's blog newsroom, which updates the social media giant's latest announcements, nor Zuckerberg's official social media accounts, made a similar remark regarding the popularity of "Jai Shri Ram" on Facebook.

We also checked the virality of "Jai Shri Ram" on Facebook over the past 12 months using social media monitoring platform 'CrowdTangle'. According to 'CrowdTangle', this phrase was most popular on Facebook in the first week of August around bhoomi pujan. A sharp decline in mentions was witnessed before and after the first week of August.

According to 'CrowdTangle', "Jai Shri Ram" found 18,763 mentions in English in the past 30 days, and 55,186 mentions in the past 12 months. Hindi numbers were more impressive, with 5,77,604 mentions in the past 30 days days, and 17,21,155 mentions in the past 12 months.





Google Trends also showed a similar variation before and after the first week of August.

However, it is clear that Zuckerberg never said "Jai Shri Ram" is being written more than 200 crore times every day on Facebook. Also, in 2020, this phrase was popular only in the first week of August, but the numbers were far less than what is being claimed.