A viral message on social media claims that Tiffany Dover, the nurse in Tennessee, United States, who fainted after receiving her first dose of the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, is now dead.

This has been claimed by several websites, and many Twitter and Facebook users.

Some suspect a conspiracy behind the Covid-19 vaccine as they believe the nurse died after vaccination. One such Facebook claim says, “The nurse who fainted after the Pf1zer \//\cc1ne died 10 hours later. Did you find this story in mainstream media....anywhere....? Of course we aren’t we being told the vaccines k1ll us...it’s part of the plan?”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Tiffany is alive. The hospital she works in released a video to show she’s doing well.

Who is Tiffany Dover?

Tiffany Dover is a critical care nurse at Catholic Health Initiatives Memorial Hospital in Chattanooga, Tennessee, US. On December 17, 2020, she fainted on live television after receiving a shot of the Covid vaccine developed by Pfizer.

But this was not due to the vaccine. Tiffany later clarified on television channels that she has a medical condition wherein she is susceptible to fainting whenever she feels any pain.

“I have a history of having an over-reactive vagal response, and so with that if I have pain from anything, hangnail or if I stub my toe, I can just pass out,” she said in an interview with news channel WRCB.



The CHI Memorial Hospital had issued a statement saying that the hospital had administered the vaccine to six individuals, three physicians, and three nurses from the hospital on the same day (December 17).

Dr Jesse L Tucker, a critical care physician at the same hospital, told WRCB, “The fainting episode is not an adverse reaction to the vaccine, but related to her medical condition.”

As per the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website, “Fainting can be triggered by many types of medical procedures. In fact, CDC has received reports of people fainting after nearly all vaccines.”

How is Tiffany doing?

Several people had suspected that something was terribly wrong with Tiffany after the vaccination as they claimed she had not posted anything on Facebook or Instagram in the last five days.

The CHI Memorial Hospital recently posted a video of Tiffany along with other hospital staff on Twitter saying that she is doing well.

We’re pleased to share Tiffany Dover is doing well. Here’s a short video of her today surrounded by her colleagues who all support her. pic.twitter.com/yGyzKvwn89 — CHI Memorial (@CHI_Memorial) December 21, 2020

On December 19, the hospital had put up an update on Twitter saying, “Nurse Tiffany Dover appreciates the concern shown for her. She is home and doing well. She asks for privacy for her and her family.”

advertisement

Lisa McCluskey, vice-president of marketing communications at CHI Memorial Hospital confirmed to the Associated Press that Tiffany was doing well and working a shift at the hospital on Monday.

Hence, the viral claim about Tiffany Dover’s death after receiving the Covid vaccine is baseless.