Amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas, a Facebook post with a video clip claims that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke to Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia over video call.

The video shows Netanyahu holding a mobile phone and speaking to what looks like the Saudi Crown Prince. “Mohammed Bin Salman video leaked by Israel.Viral video Benjamin Netanyahu and Mohammed Bin Salman”, says the Facebook caption.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the video to be morphed. This was in 2019, when Netanyahu made a FaceTime call to Mohammed Saud, a Saudi blogger and vocal admirer of Israel, who wished him victory in the elections.

The archived version of the post is saved here.

AFWA investigation

With the help of keyword search, we found a news report published on December 27, 2019, on a website called “Middle East Eye”. The headline of the news report read, “Netanyahu makes bizarre video call to Saudi blogger during primary campaign”.

As per this report, Netanyahu made a FaceTime call to Saud, a blogger and also an admirer of the Israeli PM. Netanyahu was facing the primary challenge within his party before the main election.

The report says, Netanyahu told Saud that it was too bad that he couldn’t vote “because you would make a fantastic Likudnik”, in reference to supporters of his ruling Likud party.

The original video of the conversation was uploaded on a YouTube channel on December 28, 2019. The title says, “Netanyahu makes bizarre video call to Saudi blogger during primary campaign”.

Who is Mohammed Saud?

Mohammed Saud is a Saudi blogger and avid supporter of Israel. As per a news report by “Al Jazeera”, he was also part of an Arab delegation invited by the Israeli foreign ministry in 2019.

Last year, Netanyahu had even tweeted about the blogger after hearing that he and his father had fallen ill due to coronavirus.

Did Netanyahu meet Salman?

Several international news reports had said that the Israeli PM met Prince Salman in the Saudi city of Neom in 2020. The Saudi foreign minister later denied that any such meeting took place.

But it is clear that the viral video shows Netanyahu speaking to a Saudi blogger and not Prince Salman of Saudi Arabia.