Several liberals and Islamist apologists are sharing a misleading video on Twitter in which police can be seen beating a man with a beard wearing a skullcap and Lungi. The video was first posted by serial fake news peddler and Islamist sympathiser CJ Werleman who yet again took to Twitter to put the video to claim that an ‘elderly Muslim’ man was ‘brutally’ assaulted by ‘Hindutva radicalized cops.’

Watch Hindutva radicalized cops brutally assault an elderly Muslim man. pic.twitter.com/r02VLWHOfQ — CJ Werleman (@cjwerleman) June 14, 2022

screenshot of Werleman’s tweet

Several other liberals and Islamists joined him in disseminating the video, leading the way. It was shared by Milli Gazette, which claims to be “Indian Muslims’ Leading English Newspaper.” Milli Gazette shared the video writing, “Looks like men in uniform have some personal score to settle.”

Islamist portal Milli Gazette spreading misleading info

Another person to share it was Dr Gagan Bhagat, whose Twitter profile says he is a former MLA from the Jammu & Kashmir National Conference party.

screenshot from Dr Gagan Bhat’s Twitter

A Twitter account with the name Anti-RSS Muslim also shared the video with a hateful message. It reads, “There is an urgent need for 1992 Mumbai type incidents and Indira Gandhi assasin@tion history to repeat in order to control these cow worshipers.”

screenshot from a Twitter handle peddling hate against Hindus and threatening bomb blasts.

However, this video is taken out of context to spread as it is a two-year-old video of the UP Police enforcing the strict lockdown during the first wave of Covid-19 in 2020. The Uttar Pradesh Police clarified the video through the Twitter handle of Bareilly Police. The Bareilly Police replied to the tweet by CJ Werleman asserting that this is an out-of-context video and shows police action towards a group of people who had violated Covid lockdown but the reply was deliberately hidden by him.

Bareilly Police wrote, “Concerned video is from 2020 when the complete lockdown was implemented. Unlawful gathering tried to misbehave with police and police used mild force to disperse the crowd so that COVID infection would not spread.”

The Bareilly Police had also tweeted about the incident in 2020 when some people flaunted the lockdown guidelines and upon action by the police, they crowded a police station in order to attack the police. The police used appropriate force and dispersed the crowd to ensure everyone’s safety.

The fact that Werleman has hidden the reply by Bareilly police shows he doesn’t want his followers to know the truth and wants his false propaganda to spread.

This is not the first time that the Islamist sympathiser CJ Werleman highlighted by Shekhar Gupta’s ThePrint has used false news to incite violence and hatred. He shares old videos, and incidents of petty crimes and even sometimes peddles blatant lies to claim to the outside world that the Indian government is selectively targeting only Muslims. He spreads hatred and lies against the Hindus of India.

He continues to spread such bogus news on a daily basis, yet Twitter, shockingly, does not flag his tweets as fraudulent. He claimed on his Twitter profile last year that a group of Hindu men desecrated and demolished a Muslim graveyard in Nathan, India. Which again turned out to be fake.

CJ Werlemen appears to have a particular grudge against Uttar Pradesh, probably because a saffron-clad monk is the Chief Minister of the state. In several tweets, he had mentioned Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath as a ‘Hindutva terrorist’.