A video of people offering namaz standing in knee-deep water has gone viral with the claim that Muslims are planning to capture lands by chanting Azaan in the river Ganges.

Multiple Facebook users have posted this video and the caption in Hindi reads, “This is how Muslims are planning to capture land by chanting Azaan in the river Ganges. Their plan is to build temporary residence on the riverbanks and later make them permanent as the next battle of the world is going to be for water.”

advertisement

A Twitter user has posted this video with the same caption and tagged UP CM Yogi Adityanath, Prime Minister’s office, and Home Minister’s office.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is not from India but Bangladesh.

In May 2020, Cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc in large parts of coastal Bangladesh. At Khulna’s Koyra sub-district, the cyclone destroyed embankment and flooded the area, forcing thousands of people to offer Eid prayers standing in knee-deep water.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here, here, here and here

With the help of keywords search and reverse image search we have found that the same video was uploaded last year in May by multiple news channels of Bangladesh on YouTube.

From these YouTube videos, we came to know that this incident had happened in Khulna in May 2020 during Eid.

There are multiple news reports published on various news portals from Bangladesh about the incident.

According to these news reports, this incident took place at the Koyra area of Khulna district in Bangladesh on May 25, during Eid-Ul-Fitr.

Super Cyclonic Storm Amphan had hit Sri Lanka, India, Bangladesh and Bhutan from May 16 to May 21. The cyclone left a trail of disaster in the coastal area of Bangladesh damaging embankments, flooding a vast area, destroying thousands of houses, and left 4,50,000 people in distress.

The people of the surrounding area were trying to rebuild embankments at the Koyra sub-district which was flooded due to high tidal surges. They had no other option but to offer Eid prayers standing in knee-deep water.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video has nothing to do with India or river Ganges. The viral claim is false, as the video is from the flood-affected area of Bangladesh after cyclone Amphan in 2020.