Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has been on the boil since masked attackers vandalised the campus and beat up some students on the evening of January 5. JNU Students’ Union president Aishe Ghosh was also injured in the ruckus.

Soon after, a collage of two photos one showing Ghosh with a bandage on her left hand, and the other with a bandage on the right hand has been going viral on social media. While the first photo shows her walking with some people, the second photo in the collage shows her speaking holding a microphone. Both pictures show her head bandaged as well.

advertisement

The claim along with the viral collage says Ghosh has been faking injuries. You won’t be able to figure out when a bandage on the left hand jumps on to the right, says the text in Bengali superimposed on the collage. The claim in Hindi translates to, The injuries of JNU’s Aishe Ghosh are special. Yesterday it was on one hand, today in another. And we are all fools.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the second image has been flipped to mislead. Ghosh was injured on her left hand.

Facebook user Ravindra Bharatiya posted the claim, the archived version of which can be seen here.

First image

AFWA reverse-searched both images separately and also used keywords to unearth the truth. We found that the first image in which Ghosh is seen walking with some people appeared in a news article by News18.

The article, dated January 8, shows Ghosh with bandages on her left hand and head. The image credit has been given to news agency PTI.

Second image

The second image showing Ghosh holding a microphone in hand appeared in a news article by Hindustan Times on January 7.

The caption in broken English along with the photo says, JNUSU President Aisi Ghosh addresses media personnel at JNU campus during a protest against the Sunday’s attack on attack.

The photo, clicked by HT photo journalist Vipin Kumar, shows Ghosh with her left hand and head bandaged. The viral photo has been flipped. Here’s the comparison:

The article also carries a video, and it is clear from both the video and photo that Ghosh was injured on her left hand.

Hence it is clear that the viral image of Ghosh holding a microphone has been flipped and she was injured on her left hand.