A chilling CCTV footage of some youths repeatedly thrashing and stabbing another has gone viral on social media with the claim that Muslims in Delhi’s Madipur area killed a Hindu boy in full public glare on a busy road over a petty matter.

The video shows vehicles and pedestrians passing by, but none of them stop or intervene in the matter. Towards the end of the gory clip, one of the youths is seen dragging another away, but he keeps rushing back to stab the victim, who’s lying still in the middle of the road.

advertisement In Madipur area of Delhi,three jihadists killed a minor boy in the middle of a road with a knife for a petty matter.

We are fighting amongst overselves in the name of casteism and these peacefuls are getting trained for such things?

When will Hindus wake up? pic.twitter.com/2XLdnBEjtr— Ashish Jaggi (@AshishJaggi_1) July 17, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. There is no communal angle to the incident as the accused are Hindus too.

Twitter user “Ashish Jaggi” posted the video with the caption, “In Madipur area of Delhi, three jihadists killed a minor boy in the middle of a road with a knife for a petty matter. We are fighting amongst ourselves in the name of casteism and these peacefuls are getting trained for such things? When will Hindus wake up?”

The video has gone viral on social media with similar claims. The archived versions can be seen here and here.

AFWA investigation

Using related keywords, we found multiple news reports regarding the incident. According to these reports, on July 8, three juveniles stabbed to death 25-year-old Manish Kumar in Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar area. The victim worked as a driver and lived in the same area.

Citing DCP (West) Deepak Purohit, Hindustan Times says Manish was attacked by three boys aged 15-17 years.

Manish had earlier objected to bike stunts and racing by one of the juveniles that ended in a spat. The murderous assault was a result of that.

Police inquiry revealed that Manish had thrashed the juvenile some 15 days before the incident when he didn’t pay attention to his objections. To take revenge, the minor, along with two of his friends, attacked Manish and stabbed him 28 times.

To verify the claim, India Today reporter Tanseem Haider reached out to Delhi Police who confirmed that all the three accused were Hindus and not Muslims. Police also told us their names, but we won’t disclose them as they are minors.

Hence, it can be concluded that there is no communal angle to the murder as the accused and victim are from the same community.