As the death toll in the Delhi violence mounted to 46, leaving more than 250 injured, a picture of an injured child is going viral on social media with the claim that he was attacked by rioters while on his way back from school.

Facebook user "Dhiraj Pandey" posted the picture along with a claim in Hindi that translates to, "The country will never forget this pain. The rioters did not spare even a child returning home from school. Till now, news of one kid losing his life has come in front of the nation. Social media has this painful image from the Delhi riots. What was the fault of this child? The country will never forget this pain."

advertisement

We are not showing the image of the child as it is very disturbing.

The picture is from Syria and was clicked in February 2018 when the Syrian government carried out deadly raids on Eastern Ghouta. (Source: Facebook)

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the viral image to be false. The picture is from Syria and was clicked in February 2018 when the Syrian government carried out deadly raids on Eastern Ghouta.

Till the filing of this story, the post was shared more than 1,800 times. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

To verify the claim along with the viral image, we ran a reverse search and found the picture on Getty Images. Be warned that the image is disturbing.

The caption along with the picture says, "A wounded Syrian boy covered in blood waits to receive treatment at a make-shift hospital in Kafr Batna in the besieged Eastern Ghouta region on the outskirts of the capital Damascus following Syrian government bombardments on February 21, 2018. Syrian jets carried out more deadly raids on Eastern Ghouta as Western powers and aid agencies voiced alarm over the mounting death toll and spiralling humanitarian catastrophe."

The picture was clicked on February 21, 2018, when the Syrian government carried out deadly raids on Eastern Ghouta, one of the largest areas under rebel control. We also found some media reports about the civil war and air strikes in Syria.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral image is two years old and from Syria.