Gujarat has been witnessing heavy rain for a couple of weeks, leading to flooding and damage to various structures and roads. Against this backdrop, a video showing a bridge collapsing and washing away in running water is doing the rounds on social media, claiming that the bridge is connecting Akkalkuwa — a town in Maharashtra, and Ankleshwar, a city in Gujarat.

The video is shared on Facebook with the caption: “महाराष्ट्र अक्कलकुवा से अंकलेश्वर रोड का पुल पानी के तेज बहाव में बह गया” (English translation: The bridge of Ankleshwar road from Akkalkuwa in Maharashtra washed away in the high flow of water)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

Doing a keyword search, we found a bridge that collapsed during the recent floods in Chhota Udaipur, Gujarat. But no credible media report carried the same video as recent.

Using the InVid Tool, we extracted keyframes from the viral video and performed a Reverse Image Search. This search directed us to a video tweet uploaded by ANI on August 26, 2020, that carried the same video. The text reads: “Jammu and Kashmir: A portion of a bridge in Jammu’s Gadigarh area collapses, following heavy rainfall in the region.”

#WATCH Jammu and Kashmir: A portion of a bridge in Jammu’s Gadigarh area collapses, following heavy rainfall in the region. pic.twitter.com/MPwTGefF8D — ANI (@ANI) August 26, 2020

We compared the viral video with ANI video and found many similarities. It can be concluded that the viral video is old.

We also found a news report, published by NDTV dated August 26, 2020, that carried visuals similar to the viral video. The headline reads: “Watch concrete bridge on river collapses after heavy rain in Jammu.”

Searching further, we found a video news report, published by the Hindustan Times on August 26, 2020, that carried the same viral video with a caption: “A portion of a bridge in Jammu’s Gadigarh area collapsed, following heavy rainfall in the region. As per the visuals, the bridge is located on a stream. Due to heavy rainfall in the area, the water level rose in the stream leading to collapse of a large portion of the bridge.”

Thus, it is confirmed that the viral claim that it shows a bridge collapsing in Gujarat is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news