Almost every Opposition party in India has lent support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. But are organisations associated with the ruling Right also coming out against the farm laws?

A picture of a large group of men with saffron scarves and flags, and some standing on a bullock cart, is being shared on social media with the claim that Bajrang Dal members in Uttar Pradesh protested against the farm laws and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

advertisement

The caption in Hindi in one such tweet translates to, “Bajrang Dal has come out in protest against the anti-farmer laws and is calling Prime Minister Narendra Modi a thief. Even they know the truth now.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the image to be misleading. This picture is of a Shiv Sena protest in Maharashtra’s Hingoli district on February 5 against fuel price hike.

AFWA PROBE

When we did a reverse search of the image, we found a similar picture from a different angle in the online edition of Marathi daily “Sakal”.

According to this report, the image is of a bullock cart march held on February 5 by the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra’s Hingoli district against the recent fuel price hike. The rally, led by Shiv Sena MLA Santosh Bangar, began from the party office and marched via Indira Gandhi Chowk in Hingoli, adds the report.

Taking a cue from this, we reached out to MLA Bangar who confirmed that the picture in question is from a Shiv Sena rally held by him.

“This picture is of a protest rally Shiv Sena members conducted against rising fuel prices in the country. It was held on February 5 in Hingoli. I was also part of that rally. The protest has nothing to do with Bajrang Dal,” Banger clarified.

We also found videos of the rally uploaded on February 5 on YouTube. Slogans against fuel price hike can be heard in these videos.

Retail prices of automobile fuels have reached record highs across India, leading to demonstrations in several parts of the country.

According to a report by “Outlook”, on February 5, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena held protests in several parts of Maharashtra against the Centre over fuel price hike.

Hence, it is clear that the viral image showing men with saffron flags is from a Shiv Sena protest in Maharashtra against rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. The image is not related to Bajrang Dal and farm laws.

Also read: Fact Check: This story about a treasure trove in Kashmir has an Italian connection