A video of Muslim children receiving firearms training went viral on social media with claims that these visuals showed the kind of education madrasas provided.

One Facebook user shared the video with the Hindi caption, “Students pursuing higher education in Madrasa”.

Another person on Twitter shared the video, thanking Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for shutting down madrasas, adding, “Such training is given to the students pursuing higher education in madrasas.”

advertisement

In December 2020, when Sarma was Education Minister, the Assam government passed a law repealing the Assam Madrasa Education (Provincialisation) Act and Assam Madrassa Education (Provincialisation of Services of Employees and Re-organisation of Madrassa Educational Institutions) Act, 2018, to abolish state-run Madrasas. Earlier this year, in February, the Gauhati High Court upheld the law.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that this video was from a 2015 Al Jazeera documentary on ISIL and the Taliban in Afghanistan. The clip showed ISIL fighters training Afghani children to use firearms.

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA probe

At the 14-second mark in the viral video, we noticed the Al Jazeera logo. We also caught glimpses of English subtitles throughout the video.

Searches with relevant keywords, following that, led us to an Al Jazeera report on ISIL and the Taliban in Afghanistan that contained a screengrab from the viral video.

The report published on November 1, 2015, was about a documentary film made by Najibullah Quraishi and Jamie Doran, who reportedly gained “unprecedented access to ISIL’s central leadership” and explored the threat it posed to the Taliban.

Subsequent searches led us to the original documentary “ISIL and the Taliban”, uploaded to the Al Jazeera English YouTube channel on November 2, 2015. The film was 47 minutes long.

Around the 45-minute mark in the film, the viral clip can be seen — young children being trained to use pistols and automatic weapons.

According to Al Jazeera, the documentary captured the visuals of how children as young as five were trained to fight and dedicate their lives to the “Caliphate”.

Thus, we conclude that the claims that this video showed firearms training being part of madrasa education were misleading. This video was from Afghanistan and not India. And it was related to the Taliban and ISIL.