As Maharashtra’s political future remains uncertain, a video has gone viral purportedly showing a clash between the members of the Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena. Both parties are part of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition.

The video shows what looks like an inauguration ceremony devolving into heated debate and ultimately into physical violence between two groups — supposedly the Shiv Sena and the NCP.

advertisement

Many sharing the video commented that amid the political situation involving turncoat MLAs in Shiv Sena, a fight like this between allies in the coalition government was inevitable.

Archived versions of a similar post can be seen here

AFWA found that this fracas had nothing to do with the ongoing crisis in the state.In fact, the video is more than three years old.

AFWA Probe

The logo “News and Entertainment” and the watermark “Airoli” were visible in the video.

Using these clues, we ran a search and came across the original one uploaded on the YouTube channel “News And Entertainment Web”.

The caption of the video stated the said incident was a “fight” between Shiv Sena and NCP workers in Airoli, Navi Mumbai. However, the upload date for the video was March 1, 2019. This clarified that the video had nothing to do with the current political turmoil in the state.

Subsequent searches led us to news a March 2019 report in the Times of India. Per the report, a marriage hall was built by the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation under the rule of the NCP. Shiv Sena MP Ranjan Vichare was also invited to the opening ceremony. Allegedly, however, he was ignored by the NCP during the inauguration ceremony.

The Hindu reported that tension escalated and workers from both parties got into a scuffle after a Sena corporator named MK Madhvi allegedly threatened the corporation mayor Jayant Sutar, who belonged to the NCP.

The Shiv Sena, on the other hand, accused the NCP for launching a pre-planned attack on them. Madhvi also alleged the NCP mayor of being reluctant to inaugurate the hall as it was named after his mother Jankibai Krishna Madhvi.

The police took note of both sides and registered cases under charges of attempt to murder, assault, rioting, and criminal intimidation.

The Maha Vikash Aghadi formed the Maharashtra government in November 2019, months after the aforementioned incident. Thus, it is clear that the viral video is not related to the ongoing crisis at all.