Spread the truth:

Delhi CM, Arvind Kejriwal retweeted a tweet by Amit Mishra (verified twitter handle) with a video showing a BJP leader being trashed by public on a street.

Original tweet from a verified handle, retweeted approx 500 times

मोदी सरकार को चार साल पूरे हो गए हैं लेकिन जनता को इन चार साल में जो मिला उसका जवाब जनता स्थानीय BJP नेताओं को दे रही है। मोहल्ले में जब जनता के बीच BJP के नेता पहुंचे तो उसके बाद क्या हुआ, इस वीडियो में देखिए..👇 pic.twitter.com/El7AY2yEx7 — Amit Mishra (@Amitjanhit) May 26, 2018

Tweet text –

“मोदी सरकार को चार साल पूरे हो गए हैं लेकिन जनता को इन चार साल में जो मिला उसका जनता स्थानीय BJP नेताओं को दे रही है। मोहल्ले में जब जनता के बीच BJP के नेता पहुंचे तो उसके बाद क्या हुआ, इस वीडियो में देखिए.”

Translated –

“Modi government has completed 4 years but public is replying to local BJP leaders against what they received in these four years. Watch this video what happened after local BJP leader visited the area.”

Truth –

The false points in the tweet are –

1. Claim – इन चार साल – These four years

False – This video is approx 8 month old, Oct 2017, not on completion of 4 years.

2. Claim – जनता का जवाब – Public replying

False – The attackers were from Gorkhaland Janmukti Morcha, not public

3. Claim – स्थानीय BJP नेताओं – This has been happening to all/Many local BJP ministers

False – This was just once such event that too before completion of 4 years, no such incident happened after it.

Here is the video reported by Times Now

BJP West Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh allegedly attacked in Darjeeling by unidentified youth while holding a meeting pic.twitter.com/yJifNCOzSf — TIMES NOW (@TimesNow) October 5, 2017

Times of India reported –

“KOLKATA: BJP‘s West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh was allegedly heckled on Thursday by the supporters of expelled Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) leader Binay Tamang, who had warned the leaders of the saffron party to leave Darjeeling without disturbing peace and stability.

The incident took place during Ghosh’s three-day visit to the hills following unrest over the demand of a separate state.

Tamang’s supporters staged a protest demonstration against Ghosh when he reached Darjeeling. Ghosh, however, refuted the allegations that he had come to the hills to foment trouble. The Kharagpur MLA called Tamang a “traitor”.

Ghosh was welcomed by ‘Go back’ slogans and black flags by the Tamang supporters. His aides were allegedly physically attacked. Dilip himself took shelter in the Chawk Bazaar police station. Later the party cancelled its three-day programme.

Ghosh blamed the ruling TMC for the incident.”

This was first posted on The Print –

#HoaXposed: Video showing assault on BJP leader on Modi govt anniversary is from 2017 Gorkhaland stir.@SMHoaxSlayer Nikhil Rampal @NikhilRampal1 reports: https://t.co/p12k1A2bXU pic.twitter.com/n1b2d1fqZd — ThePrint (@ThePrintIndia) May 27, 2018

Related