Decentralisation of the Supreme Court and establishing regional benches has been a long-standing demand of several states to tackle pendency of cases in the apex court and make it accessible to poor litigants living in far-flung areas of the country.

Now, a post circulating on social media claims the central government has decided to start regional benches of the Supreme Court in Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai.

advertisement

“Congratulations to Prime Minister Modi. The Central Government has decided to expand the branches of the *Supreme Court to three locations, Chennai, Mumbai and Calcutta for the first time since independence. A great move for those who have to travel to Delhi to approach the SC,” reads the post.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. As of now, no such decision has been made by the Centre. Also, the matter is sub-judice before the Supreme Court.

AFWA probe

A decision by the central government to start regional benches of the Supreme Court would have surely made headlines. However, we could not find any such report by credible media outlets.

Moreover, on August 4, 2021, in reply to a written question in Lok Sabha on whether the Centre has taken any action in “splitting the Supreme Court into Constitutional Court and Court of Appeal at Delhi and later one each in four parts of the country”, the Union law minister Kiren Rijiju clarified that the matter is sub-judice before the Supreme Court.

According to media reports, in July 2015, the Supreme Court had brushed aside appeals to open branches in other parts of the country and declared that it would have its seat only in Delhi and no other place.

“We will not open any branch of Supreme Court at any other place,” then-Chief Justice HL Dattu had said.

The fact-check division of the central government’s Press Information Bureau also confirmed that the viral claim is false, and the government has not made any decision regarding splitting the apex court.

Multiple law commissions have suggested splitting the SC into two, namely a Constitutional Court at Delhi and Court of Appeal or federal courts in North, South, East, West and Central India.

Also, a delegation of top officials from the bar councils of five southern states recently met CJI NV Ramana and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu to give a representation for the creation of a Supreme Court bench in South India. They said that Article 130 of the Constitution empowers the CJI (with the President’s consent) to constitute regional benches of the apex court.

advertisement

In 2019, Naidu had also suggested that the Supreme Court institute four regional benches. However, the Supreme Court itself has been opposed to these ideas and has not made any recent announcement on its decentralisation.

Hence, it is clear that the central government has not made any recent decision on decentralisation of the Supreme Court. The matter is sub-judice before the apex court.