Even before India could take a sigh of relief and the deadly second wave of Covid-19 was waning, a new mutant variety of the virus called Delta Plus had already raised its ugly head. Some experts have expressed their concern that this variant might be capable of dodging immunities, acquired either from vaccine or earlier infections.

On June 25, Maharashtra reported its first Delta Plus variant death.

advertisement

Amid this, some people are claiming that the new Delta Plus variant cases have already marked the beginning of the third wave in Delhi and Madhya Pradesh.

Making this claim, a Facebook user posted a status which reads, “The third wave of Covid has begun creating havoc in Delhi and Madhya Pradesh. Corona’s delta plus variant has caused four deaths. The delta plus cases have been registered in Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh. (sic)”

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that as of now, there is no evidence to prove that the third wave has already hit Delhi or Madhya Pradesh. We spoke to several experts who said that a handful of cases of the Delta Plus variant does not mean that it has caused a third wave of pandemic. The experts feel that the threat is real, but the situation is still emerging, and it would be too early to predict how it is going to pan out.

What is a wave during pandemic?

When one infected person starts infecting more than one person and the situation continues for about two weeks, the number of cases could start rising very rapidly, and this process marks the start of a new wave.

As per The University of Michigan School of Public Health, a wave implies a rising number of sick individuals, a defined peak, and then a decline.

Has the ‘Delta Plus wave’ started?

Dr. Samiran Panda, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Division in ICMR emphasised that mere identification of Delta Plus variant in some states can’t be called the beginning of the third wave.

As of now, seven Delta Plus cases have been reported from Madhya Pradesh out of which two patients have died. However, Dr. Pankaj Shukla, an official from National Health Mission, Madhya Pradesh said, “Most of these cases were reported in the month of May. And this can’t be called a third wave.”

As far as Delhi is concerned, no Delta Plus case cases have been reported in the national capital. Dr. B S Charan, Additional Director (Public Health II), Delhi Health Department told India Today, “So far, no case of Delta Plus variant has been reported in Delhi. I don’t think it’s correct to say that the third wave of pandemic has begun in Delhi. When a new wave begins, there is a rise in the number of cases. But right now, the cases are declining here.”

advertisement

On June 25, the number of Covid positive cases reported in Madhya Pradesh in the last 24 hours was 50. On the other hand, in Delhi, 115 new Covid-19 cases were reported.

So far, 50 cases of Delta Plus variant have been reported across 11 states, most of them from Maharashtra.

As per The Indian Express, the earliest case of the delta plus variant in India was detected in a sample that was taken on April 5.

As far as the third wave of Covid is concerned, timing and intensity will depend on several factors like Covid appropriate behaviour, vaccination etc.

AIIMS chief Randeep Guleria on June 19 had stated that India could see third wave in 6-8 weeks if Covid appropriate behaviour is not followed.

READ: Fact Check: Has IIT Kanpur predicted third wave from July 15? Well, there are lots of ifs, buts and jabs in between

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Did world leaders violate Covid protocols at G7 summit?