With less than a week left for polls in the Desert State, Rajasthan is witnessing surge in false claims and misleading videos on social media.

Recently, a 10-second-long video of senior Congress leader and former Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has gone viral with the claim that Pakistan flags were used in his election campaign.

On the Facebook page WE SUPPORT NARENDRA MODI, a user posted the video.

Screenshot of video posted on the Facebook page

advertisement

This video has been shared in thousands from multiple Facebook pages.

Photo showing the number of times the video was shared

India Today Fact Check found the claim to be false. The green flags in Gehlot's rally are not of Pakistan but religious flags associated with Islam.

The post claims "Pakistan flag is seen in Gehlot's rally". Several green flags along with the tricolours can also be seen in the crowd. Social media users are outraged over this video and expressed their anger against the Congress leader.

We first tried to find the location of the video. With the help of verification tool, Intel Techniques, we found a clue that the location could be from Jodhpur.

Then we scanned Gehlot's Twitter handle to look for his campaigning in Jodhpur.

We found that on November 21, Gehlot had himself tweeted the same video about a function in Umaid stadium in Jodhpur. He was flagging off a religious procession on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi. Jodhpur is also the constituency of Ashok Gehlot.

After matching the pictures of Umaid stadium with the location seen in the viral video, it is clear that the location of the viral video is Umaid stadium in Jodhpur and the date is November 21.

Lokesh Sharma, head of Ashok Gehlot's social media team also confirmed, "The video was shot on November 21 when he flagged-off an Id-ul-Nabi procession in Jodhpur." He also claimed that the flags seen in the procession are not Pakistan's but religious ones, associated with Islam. "Similar flags are often used in local religious ceremonies" he added.

After a closer look at one of these green flags which many people mistook as Pakistan's we found reason.

Pakistan's national flag has a white band on the left side and there is a star and a crescent in the middle facing towards right.

Comparison of flag in the video and national flag of Pakistan

India Today Fact Check found this video clip has been misused with wrong caption to mislead people before the Rajasthan polls.

(This story has been done as a part of Ekta News Coalition)