After the recent debacle in the assembly elections, the top leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), especially Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party chief Amit Shah, is constantly being targeted on social media. Some are holding them responsible for the defeat while others are putting up manipulated or fake content to claim that their popularity has hit the rock bottom.

advertisement

"Rotten eggs and tomatoes thrown at Amit Shah in Gujarat" -- a story by the website 'Viral In India' -- is in circulation on social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter. India Today Fact Check found that this incident happened a year ago and is now being pushed as a recent news to mislead people.

"Gujarat mein Amit shah par sarre ande aur tamatar se hamlaa"

English translation: 'Rotten eggs and tomatoes thrown at Amit Shah in Gujarat'

Viral In India filed this story with dateline - December 25, 2018 on their website and posted it on their Facebook page. This post was shared by more than 3,000 people at the time of writing this article.

This same story was also posted on Twitter by a parody account in the name of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalu Prasad Yadav with handle '@ModiLeDubega'. While we wrote this story more than 900 people already retweeted it and almost 2,500 people liked it.

The viral article narrated that the attack on Shah was the fall out of unemployment in the country, "as PM Modi failed to provide two crore jobs per year as promised earlier." Hundreds commented on these posts. Most of them criticised Amit Shah and the policies of the BJP government; believing this to be a recent incident happened in Gujarat, following the party's defeat in the three states in Hindi heartland. Nowhere, in the article, it is mentioned that this is a year-old incident.

At the end of Viral in India article there is a web link of Ahmedabad Mirror quoted as a source of this information.

The Ahmedabad Mirror news article dates back to March 8, 2017. Amit Shah's convoy was attacked by few "Patidar" supporters around night when he was passing through the Keshod town of Rajkot district on his way to Somnath temple, Gujarat. This incident was reported widely at that time, by almost all the national media networks. According to these media reports, this incident was a fallout of the Patidar movement in Gujarat, demanding reservation for the community.

Interestingly, even Viral in India also reported and published this same incident that time on their website in English calling it an attack by the Patidars on Amit Shah. But now, the same incident with twisted narrative is being pushed again giving an impression that this happened recently.