Amid the Afghanistan crisis, a photo of a US military aircraft is doing rounds on social media with the claim that this image is from Afghanistan’s capital Kabul. In the photo, a person appears to be falling from the aircraft.

The photo has been shared by a Twitter user with the caption, “The most evocative image to come out of Afghanistan. Disaster for US image as a global super power. This needless haste and panic to exit has caused great loss of face for the US military. These are images far worse than Saigon and will haunt the US for a long time. (sic)”

advertisement The most evocative image to come out of Afghanistan. Disaster for US image as a global super power. This needless haste and panic to exit has caused great loss of face for the US military . These are images far worse than Saigon and will haunt the US for a long time. pic.twitter.com/vjAOG05GFD — Maj Gen (Dr)GD Bakshi SM,VSM(retd) (@GeneralBakshi) August 22, 2021

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The photo is morphed and the image of the man falling from the aircraft has been added using photoshop to the original picture.

Archived versions of posts with similar claims can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA PROBE

While investigating the claim we did a reverse search of the image and found the original image on an aviation website. The photo on the website is similar to the photo used in the claim in many ways.

First, the type and position of the aircraft in both the photos are the same.

Second, the number displayed on the aircraft in the original photo reads 11237. If you zoom on the photo, the tail of the aircraft has the same registration number. However, in the original photo, you won’t find the image of the man falling down from the aircraft.

As per the website, this photo of the aircraft was taken on May 9, 2017, at the Prestwick Airport in Glasgow and the version of the aircraft is Lockheed C-130H Hercules.

On the contrary, according to media reports, the US military was using C-17 Globemaster III aircraft to evacuate people from Afghanistan.

According to a BBC report, this particular type of aircraft was developed in the 1980s and was first flown in the 1990s. At present, several countries use this version of aircraft to shuttle troops, cargo and sometimes people in danger.

However, the body of the C-17 aircraft is not similar to the Lockheed aircraft mentioned in the tweet, especially the wings of both aircraft are vividly different.

Hence, we can conclude that the claim is misleading. The photo used in the tweet is morphed and has no connection with the evacuation process in Afghanistan.

NOTE

The Twitter handle, from which the photo was shared, is not the official handle of Retired Major General GD Bakshi. “This is not my Twitter handle. A few Twitter profiles have been created in my name and I need to get them blocked,” Rtd. Major General Bakshi told India Today.