A post with three images claiming to be of the singer has gone viral on Facebook.

User Ridoy Barua claims in Bengali and Burmese: #breaking news, to attain peace, one of the world’s biggest stars and artist Justin Bieber has become a Buddhist monk in Myanmar, recently (this is collected from a webpage of Myanmar).

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be false. Bieber has not turned to Buddhism. Out of the three images used in the post, one is photoshopped and another is of Hein Min Thu, a new generation pop star and actor from Myanmar.

advertisement

Several Facebook users have posted these pictures along with the same claim. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

There are no credible news reports which confirm that Bieber has converted to Buddhism. Considering the huge stardom of Bieber all around the world, it would have made for international headlines had the popstar changed his religion.

Instead, we found an old Instagram post of the singer and other reliable reports of international news websites which reflect his strong belief in Christianity.

With the help of reverse image search, we unearthed the truth behind the three viral pictures.

First image

The facial characteristics of the first image of a monk in dark saffron robe have resemblance with Bieber. But this is a photoshopped image. No such image of Bieber in a monk’s dress is available on the Internet. Like this one, there are several other photoshopped images of Bieber on the Internet.

Second image

In the second image, a Buddhist monk can be seen shaving off the head of a young man with fair complexion. We found this picture in a website of Myanmar.

The man whose head is being shaven off is Hein Min Thu. He is a sensation in Myanmar and his popularity there is no less than Bieber among the Buddhist-majority nation’s new generation. He is a singer, songwriter and actor.

In July 2019, Hein Min Thu had posted this picture on his Instagram and Facebook page.

Third image

This is a picture of Bieber taken in Paris in 2011. According to a popular entertainment website, the singer went to Paris that year for the premiere of his film Justin Bieber: Never Say Never. You can see the music video here.