After the Aam Aadmi Party's clean sweep in the 2020 Delhi assembly election, the spread of misinformation related to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his party has intensified.

A Facebook user posted the screenshot of a doctored Twitter post by AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan. The post which has gone viral on social media claims that Amanatullah Khan hailed the Shaheen Bagh protest and thanked his Muslim brothers and sisters saying 'Islam will win'.



One of our readers sent this screenshot to our WhatsApp number 7370007000 to know the truth behind this tweet.

advertisement

Facebook user Purbey G posted a screenshot of a tweet by Amanatullah Khan that reads, "I am leading by 72,000 votes after 13th round of counting. Today Shaheen Bagh has won, today Islam has won. Inshallah, Islam will win in whole India. I thank my Muslim brothers and sisters, we have shown our strength. Continue to show our unity. We will write history." The caption of the Facebook post says, "Congratulations to Aam Aadmi Party, now we know what kind of political ideology they have."

The Facebook user shared the post to a group called RSS.

You can see the archived version of the post here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. We found that the screenshot of the tweet was partially faked.

We found that many people have commented 'fake' on the viral Facebook post. We tried to verify the claim and tweet. We found that the original tweet from Amanatullah Khan doesn't have the second paragraph as claimed in the post in question.

On February 11, the counting day of the Delhi election, he tweeted a sentence at 12.08 pm, writing, "I am leading by 72,000 votes after 13th round of counting.



Here is the AAP MLA's original tweet.

The screenshot posted on Facebook and the one shared with us on WhatsApp show a much longer tweet but with the same date and time. It means the second sentence of the tweet was added later and hence Amanatullah Khan's original Twitter post can be said to have been doctored.

Also, we could not find any media reports where Amanatullah Khan has said the words claimed by the viral Facebook post. However he did say that "Okhla ki janta ne current laga diya, (the people of Okhla have given an electric shock)". He made the statement referring to Amit Shah's recent advice to the people of Delhi. In an interview he also said that the home minister should visit Shaheen Bagh.

Hence, it can be said that the post is misleading as it has extra words that were added to Amanatullah Khan's original tweet.