A set of photos are viral showing an isolation unit being built up with beds and other amenities. With the images, the viral claim states this photos to be from Pragati Maidan.

Aam Aadmi Party Jharkhand Offical Facebook Page posted 2 photos claiming it to be 2700 beds being prepared in Pragati Maidan, Delhi

“दिल्ली सरकार समर्पित है। आम जनता की सेवा के लिए प्रगति मैदान में तैयार हो रहा है। 2700 करोना बेड जिसमें लोगों को सुविधा मिलेगी।

————————————-

मानव सेवा से बढ़कर कुछ नहीं होता।”

archive

Twitter

Work in progress to make Pragati Maidan into a large hospital space. Soon 2500 beds will be available in Pragati Maidan Complex.#Delhi pic.twitter.com/NQyBaGPniN — Dheeraj Aap ( Fan Of Ak & Ms ) (@AapActive123) June 14, 2020

WhatsApp

Truth

These photos are from Mumbai, May 2020, not Pragati Maidan, Delhi.

1st Photo

The first photo is of a Congress MLA, Zeeshan Siddique (MLA – #VandreEast Vidhan Sabha || Youngest MLA of Maharashtra || General Secretary Mumbai Youth Congress || Masters in Global Management and public leadership) from Bandra East who tweeted this photo last month. He can be seen walking with others.

Visited the 1000 bed hospital being made for semi critical COVID 19 patients in my Bandra East assembly at BKC. Took updates from the engineers and medical staff on site along with Assistant municipal Commisioner and joint Commisioner MMRDA. We aim to start in a week’s time! pic.twitter.com/V7LsG0pxDi — Zeeshan Siddique (@zeeshan_iyc) May 12, 2020

He also replied to the AAP team meber Piyush yesterday

I wonder how ready delhi is because that picture has ME walking inside our Covid-19 modular hospital at BKC,Bandra East – MUMBAI.

This was when we were setting the hospital up. I don’t remember visiting Delhi anytime in the recent past so clearly that’s not delhi. https://t.co/3ji4ZXRJF5 — Zeeshan Siddique (@zeeshan_iyc) June 15, 2020

2nd Photo

Times of India posted this photo as Work by BMC in MMRDA, Mumbai

3rd Photo

New Indian Express –

Workers carry out construction work at India’s first open ground quarantine and isolation facility with 1 008 beds for semi-critical coronavirus patients at BKC in Mumbai Saturday. (Photo | PTI)

Workers carry out construction work at India’s first open ground quarantine and isolation facility with 1 008 beds for semi-critical coronavirus patients atSaturday. (Photo | PTI)