At a time India is facing a shortage of face masks and hand sanitisers in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, images of "fake hand sanitisers" have gone viral with a communal spin.

A set of images show two men with two security personnel, and bottles, buckets and drums filled with liquid substances. Social media users claim these images are from India and "Muslims" are behind the spurious business.

advertisement

The archived version of the viral post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The images are not from India but Bangladesh, where police have recently seized huge quantity of fake hand sanitisers from Narayanganj city.

These images, along with similar messages, are viral on Facebook and Twitter.

AFWA probe

In one of the images, we can see security personnel in black with "RAB" written on their uniforms. RAB is Rapid Action Battalion, an elite anti-crime and anti-terrorism unit of Bangladesh Police. This raised suspicion about the viral post.

With the help of related keyword search in Bengali, we found that several Bangladeshi websites had published news about the seizure of a huge amount of fake hand sanitisers from Narayanganj in Bangladesh by RAB.

Getting a clue from this, we looked for Bengali posts on Facebook about the particular incident. One user named "Sohel Deb" recently posted the news of the Narayanganj seizure on Facebook page "POLICE HOUR".

Among several pictures he posted, we found the same men as seen in the viral post sitting in the same surroundings.

Facebook post

Several other Facebook users from Bangladesh have posted about the same incident using the same pictures.

According to Bangladesh news reports, the Rapid Action Battalion had raided a factory in Narayanganj on April 3, 2020, and seized hundreds of bottles of fake sanitizers which were being pushed into the market during the coronavirus crisis. A few people were also arrested.

In India too, fake hand sanitiser units were busted in Hyderabad and on the outskirts of Delhi in Manesar.

But these pictures which have gone viral in India with a communal message are from Bangladesh.