Is Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) celebrating Republic Day for the first time in 50 years? Well, some social media users certainly believe so. A viral post claims that this has been possible only because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Facebook page Pushpendra Kulshrestha Fans Club uploaded a post in Hindi which translates to, For the first time in 50 years, Republic Day will be celebrated on January 26 in JNU. If Modi is there, everything’s possible.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that there is no truth to the claim. JNU has always celebrated Republic Day.

Many Facebook users expressed shock at the viral post as to how for all these years, the university never celebrated such an important day. Few others have hailed the Prime Minister. Till the filing of this story, the post was shared over 1,800 times. The archived version can be seen here.

Many Facebook and Twitter users have posted the same claim.

AFWA probe

We searched Facebook for photos of Republic Day celebrations at JNU from previous years. We found many pictures of the celebrations where flag hoisting was done, with the vice-chancellor, students and staff standing around, along with some children in military uniforms as well.



This can be seen in multiple posts uploaded by Facebook users in 2017, 2016, 2015 as well as 2014.

It was in May 2014 that Narendra Modi became Prime Minister. Even Facebook page ABVP Delhi had uploaded pictures of January 26 celebrations at JNU in 2014. Apart from this, there are a few news reports from 2011 which point to grand celebrations on Republic Day in the university.

We also spoke to JNU registrar Dr Pramod Kumar, who said, January 26 has been celebrated as Republic Day from the time JNU was instituted. We have a big function. Students and staff of JNU, and children from the school here also participate. It is for the first time that National Cadet Corps (NCC) has been started in JNU, and so a few students who enrolled in it will conduct a parade this January 26. But otherwise, celebrations will be held like every year.

Thus, it is clear that JNU has been celebrating January 26 as Republic Day even before Narendra Modi became Prime Minister.