Social feeds suddenly abound with "Sharia-phobia"! Facebook and Twitter abuzz with rumours that Indian Muslims want to replace modern jurisprudence with "harsh" Islamic law.

Sample these posts floating on social platforms:

· "Are we heading towards becoming an Islamic nation where AK47s are available (more) easily than mangoes?"

Are we heading towards becoming an Islamic nation where AK47s are available easily than mangoes?



Are we shifting towards a society where a woman is killed by stones for not wearing a Veil?#ShariatCourtShocker#ShariatCourts

Qs Muslims need to answer. The Lucifer's Protege (@aps_theindian) July 9, 2018

advertisement

· "Are we shifting towards a society where a woman is killed by stones for not wearing a veil?"

· "Muslim Law Board wants to set up a parallel judicial system in the country."

· "This will create a parallel government, which will propagate Islamic law above the constitution."

#ShariatCourtShocker If Kapp courts r declared illegal by SC, how can AMPLB think about Shariat Courts? There can be only one court system in India. Those who want Muslim or kapp courts, let them all migrate to those countries which permit it.UniformCivicCode needed. #1India1Law Dr Balachandran K (@omsivakbc) July 9, 2018

· "Time for @narendramodi to take stern action and IMPOSE Uniform Civil Code & Abolish Art 370."

Social media exploded with those outbursts after the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) reportedly announced plans to expand Sharia courts in all districts of the country.

India Today's Viral Test has deciphered the nuances of the subject and busted some myths surrounding Sharia in the country. Here goes our explainer on the Shariat and Sharia courts in India:

What is the controversy all about?

The controversy erupted after senior AIMPLB member Zafaryab Jilani spoke about the board's "plans" to establish Sharia courts or Dar-ul-Qaza across the country. "Since 1993, the board has been setting up Dar-ul-Qazas to resolve marital disputes and other issues before going to other courts. In the upcoming meeting we would be discussing how to expand Dar-ul-Qazas everywhere in the country," he told India Today on Sunday.

In a statement later, the AIMPLB clarified that its executive committee would meet on July 15 in Delhi discuss issues facing the Indian Muslim community. A discussion on expanding Dar-ul-Qazas is also on agenda, it said.

Some reports also suggested that the AIMPLB was keen on setting up more Dar-ul-Qaza after the Supreme Court verdict on triple talaq led to a spike in family disputes.

What are Shariat courts?

The Shariat refers to Islamic law based on the Quran and the teachings of the Prophet Mohammed, known as Ahadith.

Sharia courts, popularly known as Dar-ul-Qazas, stand for the house of the Qazi, or an Islamic adjudicator authorized to suggest solutions to problems of Muslims approaching them.

advertisement

That said, the term Shariat is subject to both curiosity and misunderstanding and often interpreted to denote a punitive legal system exhibiting little concern for national or constitutional laws and customs.

So what exactly is a Dar-ul-Qaza?

Islamic experts say it is an institution/forum for jurisprudence to interpret Islamic law headed by a Qazi. Its verdict or directions cannot be legally enforced. They deal with matters like family, laws of marriage, divorce, inheritance, maintenance, custody of child etc. These are arbitration centers helping the poor class that cannot afford lawsuits in courts. It is clear that if someone disagrees with the direction of a Dar-ul-Qaza, the aggrieved party is free to move regular courts.

What is their legal status in India?

Dar-ul-Qazas traditionally deals with matters allowed under the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937. There about 400 Dar-ul-Qazas operational in the country.

In 2014, even the Supreme Court noted that Dar-ul-Qazas have no legal sanction but they are not illegal either. There is no compulsion on people approaching a Dar-ul-Qaza to abide by its decision.

How are Indian Shariat courts different from other countries?

advertisement

In Islamic countries like Saudi Arabia, Sharia courts are enforceable and are backed by the state. The AIMPLB has already made it clear that it accepts Indian Penal Code as far as criminal cases are concerned.

So unlike some Islamic states, there can be no place for punishments like whipping a guilty or stoning him/her. The Taliban like verdicts by Sharia courts in India is a mere exaggeration and a figment of the imagination.

What is a fatwa and who issues it?

Fatwas are answers to questions asked by people. These are issued by the muftis - or Muslim legal experts -- in accordance with Shariat laws. Muftis sit in Dar-ul-Iftas, usually a legal department in Islamic seminaries.

There are lakhs of Dar-ul-Iftas in India, existing in almost all cities and towns.

Will a Uniform Civil Code make Dar-ul-Qazas redundant?

The Uniform Civil Code in India proposes to replace personal laws based on the scriptures and customs of each major religious community in the country with a common set governing every citizen. The RSS and the BJP have been long advocating the Uniform Civil Code which will abolish Muslim personal laws. The BJP government has referred the matter to the Law Commission.

advertisement

Will Dar-ul-Qazas help Muslim women get easy justice?

Senior AIMPLB member Zafaryab Jilani rebutted allegations that expansion of Dar-ul-Qazas would lead to increase in atrocities against Muslim women. "Anyone saying this has no idea of ground realities," he regretted. "A recent research says that almost 95 percent of the litigants (in Dar-ul-Qazas) are women themselves. Moreover, the rulings mostly favour women," he added.

That makes it absolutely clear Sharia is no substitute for civil or criminal law in India.