On December 30, 2020, a mob in the northwestern Pakistani province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa vandalised a Hindu temple, following which a set of pictures started circulating on social media showing demonstrators holding placards and a banner with “MANDIR BANAO” written on it.

Some netizens claim that Muslims in Pakistan started the “Mandir Banao” campaign after the Hindu temple was destroyed in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The pictures are being circulated with captions such as: Muslims in Pakistan started “ Mandir Banao ” campaign after Hindu temple destroyed in a remote village of northeast Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province,. How many Hindus in India started “ Masjid Banao ” campaign after Babri Masjid destroyed in 1992??

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is not completely true. These pictures were taken in July last year when some people in Islamabad rallied to allow construction of a Hindu temple in the Pakistan capital. However, it is true that the recent incident of temple demolition in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa attracted flak in Pakistan.

Netizens shared similar posts on Twitter too. The archived version of the viral post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Using reverse search, we found the viral pictures in several news articles published in July 2020. One of the pictures is also available on “Getty Images”. The caption says that some people in Islamabad took out a rally on July 8, 2020, asking the government to allow construction of a Hindu temple in the Pakistan capital.

The construction of the temple was opposed by hardline Muslim groups, after which the “Pakistan Ulema Council” extended support to the temple construction in Islamabad. A Pakistani court had also dismissed petitions seeking a halt to construction of the temple.

Recently, news agency PTI reported that the Pakistan government has granted permission for construction of a Hindu temple in Islamabad.

Temple demolition in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

On December 30, 2020, the Shri Paramhans Ji Maharaj Samadhi temple in Teri village of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa was vandalised and set on fire by a mob led by a radical Islamist party, which claimed that the temple had encroached upon land. Some 1,500 people had participated in the demolition of the temple.

Later, Pakistan police told news agency AFP that they arrested about 45 people in connection with the incident.

The attack drew criticism from human rights activists and Hindu community leaders in Pakistan. A day after the incident, Pakistan’s chief justice Gulzar Ahmed took suo motu cognisance of the matter.

The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government also regretted the incident and announced the reconstruction of the temple.

But the viral pictures are not related to the incident in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. They were taken in July last year over a similar incident in Islamabad.