Trade unions are opposing the government's move to privatise various public sector enterprises, including Railways. Amid this, a video of a moving container train with "Adani" written on it is viral on social media with the claim that it is an attempt by the Centre to open up the Railways for disinvestment and change its name to Adani Railways.

The caption along with one such video says: "Main Desh Nahi Bikne Dunga" was one of the biggest lie of all times. Changing name of the Indian railways to Adani railways. This is just plain horrible!

advertisement "Main Desh Nahi Bikne Dunga" was one of the biggest lie of all times.



Changing name of the Indian railways to Adani railways. This is just plain horrible!

pic.twitter.com/8pqtNDKZb4 — Elizabeth (@Elizatweetz) September 4, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Indian Railways has neither changed its name nor sold its trains to Adani Group. At least 15 private companies, including Adani Group, have the license to operate container trains in India since 2006.

The video is also shared on Facebook with similar claims, The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using relevant keywords, we found that Adani Logistics, a division of the multinational conglomerate, has a pan-India license for container train operations since 2006.

According to a report by The Economic Times, the Indian Railways opened up the container train business to private operators, including Adani Logistics, in January 2007.

We found another report by Livemint saying Adani Logistics has been running container trains in India from November 2007.

We also found several videos of Adani-run container trains. The caption of one such video uploaded on YouTube on April 7, 2013, reads, "OVERTAKING ADANI AGRI FREIGHT: NEW DELHI - SEALDAH DURONTO BLOWS KHANA Jn."

Similar videos from 2013 can be seen here and here

A closer look at the viral video shows "GPWIS" (General-Purpose Wagon Investment Scheme) written on the train.

According to a report by Business Standard, Indian Railways in 2018 cleared proposals of six companies, including Adani Group and Tata Steel, to have their own wagons under GPWIS.

The scheme permits the six companies to transport restricted commodities such as minerals and coal, which till 2018 were completely controlled and regulated by the Railways.

The Centre does plan to run 151 private trains for 35 years across 109 busy routes in India. These constitute only around 5 per cent of the total trains run in India. Also, there is no report from credible sources regarding a move to change the name of Indian Railways.

Thus, it is clear that the train in the viral video is run by Adani Logistics, which has been in service for more than a decade with 14 other private companies. It is not part of the recent privatisation move of the Indian Railways.