Following the recent incident of communal violence in New Delhi’s Jahangirpuri, a video has been shared widely on social media with the claim that it was of a Qazi (a Sharia court judge) making threats against Hindus.

The video shared across social media claimed the man threatened to “make things harder for Hindus.”

The India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that this 2019 video was from Dehradun and not New Delhi. The man in the video was Mufti Raees Ahmed Qasmi, the district president of Dehradun’s Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind. He said this to the media following the murder of a Muslim man in Jharkhand.

advertisement

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA PROBE

A reverse search of keyframes from the video led us to the same video uploaded to YouTube on July 1, 2019, on the channel “Qari usman hassani official”. The video title was, “Jharkhandi mob lynching tabraiz ansari k qatl par bole mufti raees dehradun.”

Twenty-four seconds into the three-minute-long video revealed the contents of the viral video, where the man was heard making inflammatory statements.

On June 17, 2019, 24-year-old Tabrez Ansari was tied to a tree, brutally assaulted, and forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram”, by a Hindu mob in Jharakhand. Days later, he succumbed to his injuries.

With Ansari’s name and timeframe in place, we ran more searches and found a Live Hindustan report from June 27, 2019, which carried a photo of the man making the inflammatory statements.

According to this report, following the fatal mob attack on Ansari, a Muslim organisation in Dehradun, Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, under the leadership of city Qazi Mufti Raees Ahmed Qasmi demonstrated and handed over a protest memorandum to the District Magistrate of Dehradun addressing the Prime Minister’s Office.

Many news outlets reported on this demonstration.

During that time, Qasmi spoke to the local media, where he made the aforementioned inflammatory statements. Following this, the Dehradun police registered a case against him.

Thus, we conclude that a three-year-old statement made by a Dehradun cit Qazi was falsely linked to the recent communal violence in New Delhi.