As India is battling a renewed surge in Covid-19 cases, several states are witnessing a shortage of plasma from recovered patients. Amid this, a list of names with blood groups and phone numbers is circulating on social media with the claim that these people are ready to donate their plasma.

Plasma therapy is a treatment for Covid-19 where antibody-rich plasma from a Covid survivor is extracted and administered to a patient. One such list claiming to be of plasma donors from Delhi-NCR can be seen below.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. This is an old list of blood donors which is in circulation on social media at least since 2015. It has no relation to the Covid-19 pandemic.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

We did a keyword search of the names mentioned in the viral list and found that the same list containing more than 50 names was shared with the hashtag “#blooddonors” on December 5, 2015, on a Tamil Nadu-based Facebook page The New Face of Society (TNFS).

Over the years, the same list was shared by multiple Facebook pages with different claims. In 2016, a Facebook page named BLOOD DONORS shared the same list as from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.

The same list was also shared on a blog called I Love Trichy and medium.com in 2016 and 2017 respectively as a list of blood donors in Tamil Nadu.

AFWA tried to contact the phone numbers provided in the list. But while most of them were either non-functional or did not exist, the rest were not responding.

Even in 2020, after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in India, the same list had gone viral, claiming to be of plasma donors. The Quint had then spoken to V Mohan, one of the donors mentioned in the list, who confirmed that the names were of blood donors from Chennai and has nothing to do with plasma donation for Covid patients.

Hence, it is clear that the list in circulation is over five years old and not related to the Covid-19 pandemic or plasma donation for coronavirus patients.