Spread the truth:

Heavy rains in North East India, Assam, Bihar and others led to floods with people stuck in difficult situations, heavy loss. A set of two pictures of the flood is getting viral on various social media platforms.

Claim: The picture claims to be of the current flood situation in Assam, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh.

Priyanka Gandhi wrote:

“असम, बिहार और यूपी के कई क्षेत्रों में आई बाढ़ से जनजीवन अस्त व्यस्त है। लाखों लोगों पर संकट के बादल छाए हुए हैं। बाढ़ से प्रभावित लोगों की मदद के लिए हम तत्पर हैं। मैं कांग्रेस कार्यकर्ताओं व नेताओं से अपील करती हूं कि प्रभावित लोगों की मदद करने का हर संभव प्रयास करें।”

Translation: “Floods in many areas of Assam, Bihar and UP have disrupted life. Crisis is clouded over millions of people.Floods in many areas of Assam, Bihar and UP have disrupted life. Crisis is clouded over millions of people.”

Facebook:

The official verified Facebook page of Indian National Congress General Secretary Smt Priyanka Gandhi Vadra shared these pictures. The archived version of this post can be accessed from the following link.

archive

Twitter :

असम, बिहार और यूपी के कई क्षेत्रों में आई बाढ़ से जनजीवन अस्त व्यस्त है। लाखों लोगों पर संकट के बादल छाए हुए हैं। बाढ़ से प्रभावित लोगों की मदद के लिए हम तत्पर हैं। मैं कांग्रेस कार्यकर्ताओं व नेताओं से अपील करती हूं कि प्रभावित लोगों की मदद करने का हर संभव प्रयास करें। pic.twitter.com/RiOMe5R0D3 — Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) July 20, 2020

The officially verified twitter handle of Indian National Congress General Secretary Smt Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted these pictures. The archived version of this post can be accessed from the following link.

archive

Media :

One of the popular media houses News18’s Gujarati website also carried out the same pictures in a recent article.

The archived version of the story can be accessed from the following link. http://archive.is/fNcyp

Truth :

Although the news of flood is true but the photos used are old.



The truth is that these pictures belong to different-different years and they do not belong to the current flood situation in Assam, Up, and Bihar.

Pic 1 :

When we used Google reverse image search for this picture we found that this is an old picture of Assam flood from the year 2019. This image was found in several media articles at that time.

We found this image on a DD news’s online website article dated on 28th July 2019.

We also found same picture used in a OneIndia’s article dated 24th July 2019.

Pic 2:

When we used google reverse image search and a series of a keyword search for this picture. We found this image in several old articles from the year 2017.

We found an article dated 14th august 2017 on the English website News Nation, The archived version of this article can be accessed from this link.

We also found the same picture used in an old article on the news website Scroll.in which was dated 14th august 2017.

Source: The Scroll.

Therefore in our investigation, it was found that these viral pictures are not from the current flood situation of Assam, UP, and Bihar instead they are old pictures from the flood.

Related