Following anti-vaccine protests by truckers in Canada, the country’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau reportedly moved to a secret location with his family.

Soon after, a video of “The Simpsons” started circulating on social media, with users sarcastically remarking that the popular animation sitcom had predicted the developments long back.

The clip shows two characters travelling in a truck. One says, “Look son, it’s one of nature’s most beautiful sights! The convoy!” The camera then focuses on the side mirror that shows several trucks coming from behind. In the next scene, a man is seen escaping through the window of a building. Some screams can also be heard in the background.

advertisement

“The Simpsons have done it again! Episode from 1999 has Trudeau running away from a truck convoy!” one user wrote while posting the video.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video has been created by combining clips from two unrelated episodes from two entirely different seasons. Also, the screaming heard towards the end is not present in the original video.

AFWA probe

Searching the Internet, we found that a YouTube user had shared the video on January 30, 2022. He said the original source of this video is Episode 17 from Season 10 and Episode 21 from Season 30 of “The Simpsons”.

Using this information, we did a keyword search and found the original visuals of the said episodes. The starting part of the video in which two characters are seen in a truck has been taken from “Maximum Homerdrive”, the 17th episode of the show’s 10th season.

In this video, the truckers’ convoy is not protesting. Instead, the truckers are annoyed with a key character called Homer for revealing one of their secrets. The original video can be seen below.

The latter part in which a guy is seen escaping through a window is a portion of “D’oh Canada”, the 21st episode of the show’s 30th season. In this portion, the character who escapes through the window is indeed Canadian PM Trudeau. However, the context is entirely different. He is seen talking to a student, Lisa, over Skype. When she asks him a question about a scandal, he becomes uncomfortable and immediately escapes through the window.

In this video, there are no screams, unlike the viral one. Clearly, the screams have been added using some editing software.

The viral claim was earlier debunked by fact-check website “Snopes.”

Hence, it is clear that the viral clip is manipulated and does not show Canadian PM Justin Trudeau running away from truckers, as is being claimed.