Afghanistan’s Panjshir valley has been witnessing heavy fighting between the Taliban and the National Resistance Front. Amid the chaos, a video has gone viral claiming to depict the current situation in the country. The video shows a large group of men being pushed inside a truck container.

According to multiple social media posts, the men are claimed to be from Kabul and Panjshir who were detained and imprisoned in containers byTaliban.

advertisement

One such post can be seen below.



The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. The viral video is from a feature film titled ‘The Clouds: A Story about the Taliban’ by an Afghan filmmaker.

With the help of appropriate keywords and a reverse search of the keyframes, we found that the video is cropped from over an hour-long feature film titled ‘The Clouds: A Story about the Taliban’. The film was uploaded on YouTube channel — Danish Association — on December 29, 2017.

We can see the video clip in question at the 47-minutes-10-second mark.





According to the description of the original video, the film tells the story of "Taliban atrocities from Kabul to the Afghan border in the Amu Darya". The film was written, directed, and produced by Sidiq Abedi, who had won several awards for his film ‘A Man Dreaming of a Fifth Woman’.





Apart from scripting and directing the film, Abedi also played the role of the protagonist Shabgir in the film. He also portrays a few other roles in the film.





While watching the entire movie, we realised that the man who is being pushed in the viral video is Abedi himself playing the role of Shabgir.



A comparison of multiple shots of Abedi from the movie can be seen below.





Interestingly, we also found that Abedi’s ‘A Man’s Desire for A Fifth Wife’ is the first Afghan film that debuted at the International Film Festival of India (IFFI). The movie was screened at 44th IFFI in 2013 in Goa.

A video of Abedi interacting with media at IFFI, uploaded by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on their YouTube channel, can be seen below.

advertisement





Multiple images and videos have come out of Afghanistan in past few days showing Taliban beating women as they held demonstrations for women participation in the new Afghanistan government. Several journalists were also reportedly beaten while covering the protests.

It is, however, clear that the video in question has been cropped from a feature film and used out of context.