In yet another sickening incident in Pakistan, four women were thrashed and paraded naked by a mob in Faisalabad on allegations of shoplifting. In a video that has now gone viral, the women are seen begging for mercy, evoking strong response from netizens across the globe, including from India.

Soon after, Pakistani social media handles started sharing a video of a man being brutally thrashed as an example of atrocities on Muslims in India. The video shows two men beating up a third with a hammer and rod, even as another person pins the victim down.

advertisement

The Pakistani handles are sharing the video with the hashtag #SolidariTea4Kashmir, implying that the incident is from Kashmir.

“And this is India on Daily basis against minorities. It is shameful that US, Human rights orgs and Western media are keeping a blind eye for their own business benefits. #Faisalabad #SolidariTea4Kashmir,” reads one such caption.

The archived version of the post can be seen here

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The incident took place recently in Faridabad on the outskirts of Delhi. The accused and the victim are all Hindus, and the incident was the fallout of personal rivalry.

AFWA probe

Upon closely observing the video, one can clearly see a board with “Faridabad” written on it.

The incident was widely covered by the Indian media. It took place at Badkhal Chowk in Faridabad on December 6, 2021. While the accused were identified as Pradeep, Lalit and Sachin, the name of the victim is Manish.

According to media reports, the three accused arrived in a car and hit Manish, who was riding a bike, from behind.

Manish fell down, after which the three men got out of the car and started hitting him with a hammer and rod. While Pradeep and Lalit were caught by the police, Sachin escaped.

As stated in the official press release of Haryana police, Manish had attacked Pradeep’s brother Yogesh in 2020, and this attack was in revenge. We also contacted Faridabad Deputy Commissioner of Police Nitish Aggarwal, who rubbished claims that the incident is from Kashmir or there’s any communal angle to the matter.