A video of a scuffle has gone viral on social media. Many have shared the clip, in which a handful of Bharatiya Janata Party workers can be seen attacked in broad daylight, claiming this took place in Uttar Pradesh amid the assembly polls. One such tweet can be seen here.

Similar claims have been archived here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim misleading. The video is from Telangana's Jangaon district. The video shows BJP workers clashing with members of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi. The incident has no connection to the ongoing polls in UP.

AFWA Probe

When we searched, we found no recent reports of major political clashes in UP. Upon a closer look at the video, we noticed the writing on one of the traffic islands. It said "Jangaon Traffic Police.”

Jangaon is a district in Telangana — located 85 kilometres away from Hyderabad. The people chasing the BJP workers donned pink shawls. Pink is the dominant colour of the TRS — the state’s ruling party. We also confirmed that in the video, the language on the storefront signs (aside from English) was Telugu.

We spotted a huge billboard towards the end of the video with the photo and name of K Chandrasekhar Rao a.k.a. KCR — the chief minister of Telangana, and the TRS supremo.

This confirmed that the video is not from Uttar Pradesh as claimed by many; rather it was shot in Telangana.

We ran a Google keyword search to learn more about the clash. According to media reports, the incident took place on February 9, 2022, when workers of the two parties faced off.

On February 8, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had told the Rajya Sabha that the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh in 2014 was not a smooth affair. He said there was no consultation over the process and consequently, both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh suffered.

The Prime Minister's remarks weren't well-received by the TRS who decided to organise protests against him. On February 9, Jangaon MLA Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy called upon TRS members to stage a protest against the PM. Party workers organised a motorcycle rally.

The TRS' decision to burn an effigy of Modi in the town was contended by flag-bearing BJP supporters who arrived at the spot, reports state. This led to a physical confrontation between the two groups during which the video in circulation was shot. A detailed report of the incident can be read here.

We also found the viral video on the YouTube channel of TV9 Telugu uploaded on February 9.

Another popular Telugu channel, NTV Telugu had more visuals of the incident.

advertisement

Thus, it is clear that the video in circulation captures a tussle between BJP and TRS workers in the Jangaon district of Telangana. It has nothing to do with either Uttar Pradesh or the ongoing assembly polls there.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena in Lucknow)