A viral message on social media claims that the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh will shut down madrasas which do not celebrate Republic Day on January 26.

One such post in Hindi translates to, “Madrasas which will not unfurl the Tricolour or sing the national anthem on January 26 will be locked — Yogi ji of UP. Jai Shri Ram”.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Mohsin Raza, UP minister of state for minority welfare, confirmed to us that the Yogi government has issued no such order regarding shutting down of madrasas in the state.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

An order from the UP government to shut down madrasas that do not celebrate Republic Day would have definitely made headlines. However, we could not find any credible media report or circular regarding the matter.

According to some media reports, since 2017, the UP government has been issuing advisories to all madrasas to record video of events organised on the occasion of Independence Day. However, no report mentioned closing down of madrasas that violate the advisory.

We then reached out to Mohsin Raza, UP minister of state for minority welfare, for better clarity.

Rubbishing the viral claim, the minister said, “The UP government has not issued any order for shutting down madrasas that do not hoist the national flag or sing the national anthem on Republic Day. There is a pre-existing order asking madrasas to celebrate Independence Day and Republic Day. But we never said madrasas will be shut for not doing so. We are trying to modernise madrasas and not close them.”

AFWA also spoke to Maulana Abdul Jalil Nizami, general secretary of All India Tanzeem Ulema-e-Islam, who confirmed that there was no mention of shutting down madrasas in any government order.

“The viral claim is false. We have been receiving advisories since 2017 asking madrasas to celebrate Independence Day and Republic Day and maintain videos and pictures of celebrations. However, we have not received any circular stating that madrasas will be closed if they do not hoist the national flag or sing the national anthem,” Nizami said.

Modernisation of madrasas in UP

Since 2017, the Yogi government has been rolling out agendas for modernisation of madrasa education in UP by incorporating modern subjects, apart from religious education.

advertisement

In the 2020-21 state Budget, the UP government had allotted Rs 479 crore for modernisation of recognised madrasas and maktabs.

In 2018, the UP government had also said that madrasas which fail to submit their details on the website of the state madrasa board are at risk of losing their recognition.