A video has gone viral on social media in which a group of men wearing skull caps can be seen standing around a large container of food. In the 1 minute 22 second video, a man is seen scooping up some food on a ladle and taking his mouth close to it, before dropping it in the container.

The post claims that the location is Shaheen Bagh in New Delhi and the man is spitting on a ladle of biryani before distributing it to non-Muslims.

advertisement

Facebook user Santam Chaudhury is among many others who have posted this video. The caption of the video, which is in Hindi, reads, "Here is the reality of biryani being distributed in Shaheen Bagh. The food is being spat on before it is to be distributed to non-Muslims. It is impossible to make secular people understand this."

The post was shared by more than 14,000 people at the time of writing this article. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim related to the video to be false.

In the video, it can be seen that none of the people are in winter clothes. With Delhi currently going through peak winter, it is highly unlikely that people would not wear warm clothes outdoors.

Through InVid reverse search tool, we broke the video into key frames. Upon reverse-searching the key frames, we found a similar video on YouTube. This video is also of 1 minute 21 seconds and was uploaded by Basheer Bahrain on December 15, 2018.

The caption of the YouTube video is in Malayalam, which says, "Those who don't understand barkat of Islam, they should eat spitted on food."

Hence, it is clearly established that the viral video is two years old.

The protest at Shaheen Bagh has been going on since over a month. The agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) started after the Bill was passed in both houses of Parliament on December 11, 2019.

We found several news reports where it is said that the Shaheen Bagh protest is taking place on the GD Birla Marg which is an urban area. So, it is unlikely that the area will have so many coconut trees. The locality can be seen here through a satellite map.

AFWA contacted the person who uploaded the video on YouTube for the exact location, but we are still awaiting a response. The article will be updated as per the response.

However, it is clear that the video is old and not from Delhi.