News of a man being beaten to death for not buying headphones that he bargained for emerged from Old Delhi on Wednesday. Soon, social media users started sharing a video of a mob brutally thrashing a man in the middle of a market and claimed that the video is of that incident.

The official Facebook page of Delhi Pradesh Youth Congress shared the video and wrote a post in Hindi, which when translated stands to, One more picture of a blot on civilised society appears; a minor quarrel over buying headphones outside Old Delhi railway station took away this man’s life.

advertisement

The video begins to play with a message: A young man lost his life due to negligence of the administration.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video has nothing to do with the Old Delhi incident. This video is from Meerut in UP where the man was thrashed for allegedly harassing a woman; the incident took place on Monday.

This claim was uploaded by many Facebook users and a news anchor as well. This particular news anchor had tagged Delhi Police in his tweet. However, he deleted the tweet after it was pointed out that the video had nothing to do with the Old Delhi incident.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

AFWA searched the Internet for information regarding the incident where a man was beaten up by shopkeepers in a quarrel over headphones. The incident took place outside Old Delhi railway station but it happened on Monday night. The viral video, on the other hand, is shot in broad daylight.

In the Old Delhi incident, a man named Mohammad Owais had bargained with a hawker for a headphone. According to reports, Owais did not buy the headphone after bargaining and left. This angered the hawker and he, along with his friends, beat up Owais. He was taken to hospital by policemen but was declared dead on arrival.

AFWA then looked for clues in the viral video and found that at the start of the video, alloy wheels and wheel alignment were written on a wall. We derived that this incident took place near a shop dealing with automobiles.

The other clue is of a hotel right across the street Sara Hotel Bar and Restaurant. AFWA searched the Internet and found that a hotel by this name does exist in Meerut according to Tripadvisor. The map shows that right opposite the hotel, there is a Shivalaya Yamaha shop.

Aided with this information that the video could be of Meerut, AFWA searched the Internet to find if any man had been thrashed by a mob there. There indeed was an incident on Monday of a mob beating up a man for eve-teasing a woman passenger.

advertisement

In the Meerut incident, the man being beaten up is alive and has been sent to jail. This incident was reported by The Times of India and Amar Ujala, and those people who appear in the viral video can be seen in the video and photographs accompanying these news reports.

Therefore, it can be said that while the incident of a man being beaten to death over a headphone did take place in Old Delhi, the video that is going viral with the post is from Meerut.