A video of Prime Minister Narendra Modi being felicitated with a gold chain has gone viral. Those sharing the video on Facebook and Twitter claimed that while the Nupur Sharma controversy raged on in India, Modi was being rewarded by a “Sheikh”. The gold chain allegedly weighed 150 tolas (1,749 grams). Sharma, a former Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson, had made controversial remarks on the Prophet Mohammad.

advertisement

AFWA found that the video is old and is not related to the Nupur Sharma row. In 2019, PM Modi was conferred with the “Order of Zayed” medal by United Arab Emirates crown prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. It is the highest civilian award in the UAE.

The viral posts have been archived here and here.

AFWA Probe

With the help of a reverse image search, we found similar images tweeted by ANI on August 24, 2019. The tweet read, “Abu Dhabi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi conferred with Order of Zayed, UAE's highest civilian award by Crown Prince, Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.”

The video of the event taken from a different angle was uploaded to ANI’s YouTube channel the same day. This video was titled, “PM Modi conferred with highest civilian award of UAE Order of Zayed”.

This was also reported by the international media in 2019. The award consists of a collar centred by a medallion holding the name of Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, the founding father of the United Arab Emirates. Some of the past recipients include Russian President Vladimir Putin, former US President George Bush, and the UK's Queen Elizabeth II.

On June 28, PM Modi visited the UAE to pay his condolences following the death of former UAE president Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. At the time, the President of UAE received Modi personally at the airport in Abu Dhabi. This was Modi's first visit to the UAE after the Nupur Sharma controversy.

It’s noteworthy that following Sharma’s controversial remarks, the UAE condemned the incident along with other Islamic nations.

Thus, we conclude that an old video from 2019 that shows Modi receiving the highest civilian honour in the UAE has been falsely linked to the Nupur Sharma controversy.

(With input from Sanjana Saxena)