A set of pictures of a man serving biryani on a plate and some medicines is going viral on social media with a communal twist. The post claims that a biryani joint in Tamil Nadu's Coimbatore has two vessels for Hindus and Muslims, and the one meant for Hindus is laced with medicines to make them impotent.

Twitter users "Venky", "Ankur soni" and others posted the images with the caption, "Muslim biriyani ready to eat fastfood joints & restaurants have two vessels for preparing biriyani, One for muslims and the other for Hindus the vessel for Hindu's is mixed with tablets to make Hindus childless. In Coimbatore named restaurant 'Masha Allah' by Rehman Bismilla."

advertisement

The archived versions of these tweets are saved here and here.

The same post has been shared by many Facebook users too. The archived version can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the post to be false. The pictures used in the viral post are taken from various unrelated sources. Coimbatore police have also called the post fake.

AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we found that all the three pictures used in the viral post are unrelated and taken from different sources.

Viral image 1

This picture of the biryani seller has been used several times on various YouTube videos related to the delicacy as a thumbnail image. This video was uploaded in June 2016 with the caption, "Indian Muslim festival DUM BIRYANI Preparation for 30 People & STREET FOOD".

Viral image 2

This image was used in many Tamil websites regarding the haul of a large number of medicines from Colombo, Sri Lanka, in 2019, suspected to be used by the ISIS. The viral image can be seen along with other images on the website "tamilwin.com".

Viral image 3

This image is a screen grab from a video tweeted in 2017. The user claims this to be a scene from a restaurant selling biryani in India.

Coimbatore police have recently replied to a user calling this viral post fake and warned of action against people peddling it on social media.

Don’t spread fake news. Be responsible user of social media. No one should believe this tweet handle as it is spreading fake news. CCP is working to trace this handle. Coimbatore City Police (@policecbecity) March 2, 2020

Hence, AFWA concludes that the viral post is absolutely false.