Following the clashes between Delhi police and protesting farmers during the January 26 tractor rally, security has been beefed up in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). Amid this, a video showing a group of Nihang Sikhs arguing with a bus driver and attacking the bus with swords is viral on social media. It is being claimed that it is a scene from the ongoing farmers’ protest. The bus belongs to Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), a state-run bus operator in Punjab.

advertisement

The caption in Hindi to one such video translates to, “Government property demolished under the guise of farmers. Attack on government buses. Some people with poor mentality resort to violence in the name of religion. This is clearly visible in the video. The driver of the #PRTC bus has parked the bus aside. #FarmersProtest #KisanProtest #kisanandolan #NewsUpdate #delhi #farmersprotestchallenge #farmersprotestchallenge #BJP4IND #kissan #news #instagram #india #Haryana #Punjab.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. This is a 2019 video from Kapurthala district of Punjab. The incident reportedly took place after the bus allegedly hit one of the horses that the Nihang Sikhs were riding on.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of a keyword search, we found the same video uploaded on multiple YouTube channels since at least September 2019.

One such video uploaded on September 23, 2019, on the YouTube channel of P24 News, can be seen below.

We also found multiple media reports on the incident. According to a news report by The Tribune dated September 20, 2019, the incident happened after the PRTC bus allegedly hit one of the horses of the Nihang Sikhs by accident. Roadways officials at the Kapurthala depot also confirmed the incident to The Tribune.

Amar Ujala, Dainik Bhaskar, Jagran, and Asianet News had also reported regarding the incident in September 2019.

According to the Jagran report, the incident happened near Gurudwara Shri Tahli Sahib on the Kapurthala-Nakodar Road of Kapurthala district, Punjab. Bus number PB09-X-3613 of Kapurthala depot was travelling to Kapurthala from Nakodar on the morning of September 14, 2019. The news report also identified the bus driver as Nirmal Singh.

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is more than a year old and not related to the ongoing farmers’ protest.