With the start of Sawan, a video in which some Kanwar Yatris are getting beaten up becoming a new topic to talk about on social media. Further, users are sharing the video Targeting the Mamata regime. Meanwhile, along with the video Twitter user, Arun Kumar wrote, “On the other hand #बंगाल do this condition of the Kanwar passengers. Mamata’s police have kept. This video has been found on the net, after seeing the mood got spoiled, seeing this it seems that the Hindus There is a lot of plights that is happening in Bengal!”

(“उधर #बंगाल में कांवड़ यात्रियों का ये हाल कर रखा है ममता की पुलिस ने ये वीडियो नेट पर मिला है, जिसे देखते ही मूड खराब हो गया, इसे देखकर लगता है कि हिन्दुओं की बहुत दुर्दशा हो रही है बंगाल में!”)

Similarly, many other users have shared this video with the same claim.

Fact Check

To know about the veracity of the viral claim, we applied reverse image search on different frames of the video. Consequently, we got a viral video on the verified Twitter handle of @BJP4Bengal. But, the video was uploaded on August 16, 2021. Hence, this is an old video. Moreover, the caption of the video was, “In front of the Bhootnath temple, the devotees of Shiva were brutally beaten by the Kolkata police. Is this what the devotees of Shiva deserve? Mamata Banerjee’s reign in Bengal serves as a microcosm of the Taliban rule! Shame!”

In front of the Bhootnath temple, the devotees of Shiva were brutally beaten by the Kolkata police. Is this what the devotees of Shiva deserve? Mamata Banerjee's reign in Bengal serves as a microcosm of the Taliban rule! Shame! pic.twitter.com/XSAO9SwD35 — BJP West Bengal (@BJP4Bengal) August 16, 2021

Furthermore, we got many other-year-old posts with the same video.

Shocking and barbaric! The @KolkataPolice is mercilessly beating the Shiva Devotees in front of Kolkata's Bhootnath Temple and it is really a painful sight to watch. Is this what these innocent devotees deserve? Bengal saw another form of Taliban rule under @MamataOfficial . pic.twitter.com/xT9mOydGEi — Ritesh Tiwari (@IamRiteshTiwari) August 16, 2021

Conclusion

Therefore, from our fact check it is clear that the viral video is old. Hence, the claims of social media users are misleading.

Also Read: Old video of PM Modi gone viral with the misleading claim.