Is the Ganga Expressway going to be the world's longest? Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath made this claim after his government approved the construction of the 600-km-long project at a historic cabinet meeting in Prayagraj on Tuesday (January 29).

Several Facebook pages such as 'Nation with NaMo' and 'Phir Ek Baar Modi Sarkar' have iterated the same claim.

India Today Fact Check found that the claim regarding the Ganga Expressway is completely false. There are many other expressways or freeways (as called in the US) across the world that figure in the list of the longest.

advertisement

'Phir Ek Baar Modi Sarkar' posted the message saying, "Uttar Pradesh mein Yogi sarkar banwaigi duniya ka sabse lamba expressway."

ENGLISH TRANSLATION: The Yogi government will make the world's longest expressway in Uttar Pradesh.

This message, along with some other information in Hindi about the Ganga Expressway, was shared by more than thousand people during the time of writing this article.

'Nation With NaMo' posted the same information in English with the message, "India will soon have another world record to its credit!" More than 2,500 people have already viewed this post.

Prominent news websites such as The Economic Times also published a story headlined "UP to build world's longest Expressway: Yogi Adityanath".

As per Yogi's claim, this Ganga Expressway will pass through Meerut, Amroha, Bulandshahr, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Kannauj, Unnao, Rae Bareli and Pratapgarh districts and end at Prayagraj. This will be initially a 4-lane road with access-control and expandable to 6 lanes.

"Controlled-access highways" by definition are known for unhindered flow of traffic with no traffic signal and intersections or property access. These kinds of roads are known by different names worldwide such as like freeway, motorway and sometimes in less precise terms as expressway, highway, interstate or parkway.

We found that there are many other expressways or freeways in the world which are longer than the proposed 600-km Ganga Expressway of the Yogi government. In 2017, China opened up one of the longest expressways in the world, which connects Chinese capital Beijing to Urumqi - the capital of Xinjiang province - along the 2,540k-m highway. This was reported widely by many international media like Mirror.

Not just abroad, India too has a proposed expressway - Nagpur-Mumbai Super Communication Expressway, popularly known as Samruddhi Corridor - which is longer than the Ganga Expressway.

According to a recent report published by India Today, of the total 701-km-long Samruddhi Expressway project, construction of approximately 600 km is likely to be completed by December, 2020.