After the Supreme Court put the Ayodhya dispute to rest, social media has been flooded with images claiming to be of Babri Masjid. Four images are being circulated with the claims that these are rare images of Babri Masjid, with the courtesy being given to British Museum.

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that only one of the four images is of Babri Masjid. The other images are from different locations around the world.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Facebook page 'Muslim Mirror English' posted the photos with the caption: "Few rare images of Babri Masjid. (Courtesy British Museum)". The images have gone quite viral on Facebook.

To verify the claim attached to the viral photographs, we ran a reverse search on every photo. This is what AFWA found:

Photo 1:

We found the coloured version of the image on the stock photo of Shutterstock.

The caption attached to the photo reads: "Interior of the Green Mosque (Yesil Camii) in Bursa, Turkey". This image was clicked by photographer Kononchuk Alla on March 31, 2016. This photo has not been taken from the exact same angle but one can find the similarities between the viral images and this one. The windows, fountain and designing on the wall resemble the photo.

Photo 2:

We found this image in the stock of dreamstime.com. This is Ibrahim Rouza mosque in Bijapur, Karnataka. The caption with the photo says: "Intricate design of arches inside the tome 'Ibrahim Rouza' in Bijapur from 16th century". Upendra Bapat holds the copyright for this image.

Photo 3:

We found this image to be the real image of the Babri Mosque. An article published in The Wall Street Journal on April 4, 2014, features the viral image. The caption with the image reads: "A photograph of the Babri Masjid from the early 1990s. Copyright: The British Library Board"

Photo 4:

This photo has nothing to do with Babri Masjid. We found this image in the stock of Alamy. It says this is the image of Noh Gunbad Mosque in Balkh, Afghanistan. The image was clicked by B. O'Kane.

It is clear that except one image, all the other images have nothing to do with Babri Masjid.