An image of a green flag being waved in a political rally has gone viral with a claim that it is the Pakistani national flag waved during a Congress rally.

Multiple users have shared this image on Facebook. The caption in Hindi to one such claim translates as, “It is far better to bear the extra cost of petrol rather than voting to a party that raises anti-India slogans and waves Pakistani flags in their rallies.”

advertisement

The claim comes in the backdrop of rising fuel prices across the country. Fuel prices witnessed a hike for the 10th consecutive day on Thursday with the rate of petrol touching Rs 89.88 per litre in Delhi.

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) has found that the claim is mostly false. The green flag among the Congress flags seen in the viral image is not a Pakistani flag but the party flag of The Indian Union Muslim League ( IUML), a political party from Kerala. The image is taken during a political rally in North Belgaum before the Karnataka Assembly election in 2018.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

THE TRUTH BEHIND THE “PAKISTAN FLAG”

With the help of reverse image search, we found that the same image is a screengrab from a video of a Congress rally in North Belgaum that went viral in 2018 and 2019 as well on social media.

The green flag with a white star and crescent in the viral image is the party flag of The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). India Today had debunked misinformation about the IUML flag on other occasions as well, which can be read here.

The Pakistan national flag has a white vertical band on the left side and is strikingly different from an IUML flag.

IUML flag



Pakistan flag

It was during the Karnataka Assembly election in 2018 that this video of the Congress rally had gone viral. As per a newspaper report, the Kerala-based IUML party had supported Congress in the Karnataka election.

Multiple fact-checkers had debunked similar misinformation that claimed that the Pakistan flag was shown during a Congress rally.

Hence, it is confirmed that it was not the Pakistani flag but a party flag of IUML that was waived during the Congress rally in Karnataka, 2018.

advertisement

READ | Fact Check: Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru were not sentenced to death on February 14

READ | Fact Check: The man who was playing double role of Naseeruddin Shah and Rakesh Tikait on Twitter