Amid the country-wide anti-government protests in Sri Lanka, a video showing a group of men being interrogated by the public went viral on social media. A group of men can be seen kneeling on the road in the video.

Naked from the waist up, and wearing only blue pants, these men looked scared as they appeared to be pleading to a mob surrounding them. The video was circulated claiming that these men were Sri Lankan ministers, who were stripped naked by an angry anti-government mob in Sri Lanka.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the men seen in the video were not Sri Lankan ministers. They were prisoners.

AFWA probe

A reverse search of the keyframes of the video led us to the same video shared by multiple social media handles from Sri Lanka on May 10.

Per these posts, the men in the video were inmates of an open prison, and they were being interrogated for allegedly attacking protestors.

#SriLanka #GoHomeGota

Video evidence has surfaced to prove that Mahinda Rajapaksa has bought prisoners to attack peaceful protestors on 090522.

These are prisoners from open prison cam at Watarka and they have been transported by Jailer Rathnayake pic.twitter.com/F5ksWrwxzv — sunanda deshapriya (@sunandadesh) May 9, 2022

Daily Mirror Sri Lanka also tweeted the same video claiming the men were prisoners.

It was reported that prisoners were bought today (10) to attack the protesters at #GotaGoGama. pic.twitter.com/xipnq14JW1 — DailyMirror (@Dailymirror_SL) May 9, 2022

We reached out to local journalists from Colombo to get to the bottom of these claims. Dinesh De Alwis, a journalist from Colombo, confirmed to India Today that the men seen in the video were not MPs. He added that in the video, the men could be heard saying they were prisoners.

“In the video, the men said they were prisoners from Watareka Open Prison Camp. They also said they were allowed to work on sites and on the way back to the prison from the site, a jailor took them to a protest site,” the journalist explained.

ARV Loshan, another journalist from Colombo, also said the same. He told India Today that a few of the men seen in the video were later taken to a hospital.

The video was also carried on the verified YouTube channel of Hiru News, a news portal from Sri Lanka.

As per reports, the video went viral on social media after violence erupted in Sri Lanka on May 9. Supporters of former prime minister Mahinda Rajapaksa reportedly attacked peaceful anti-government protesters who were demanding Rajapaksa’s ouster over the country's worst economic crisis.

advertisement

On May 10, the Sri Lanka Department of Prisons refuted the claim that prison inmates were part of the attack. However, the department confirmed that about 58 of 181 prisoners went missing while being transported to Watareka prison from three different construction sites.

Prison Spokesperson Chandana Ekanayake was quoted by the media saying that a group of prisoners was forcibly pulled out from buses and assaulted by the agitated public, while they were returning to the prison. According to the police, anti-government protestors attacked the prisoners assuming that they were part of the pro-government mob.

While we could not independently verify why the men seen in the video were attacked by the public, what was clear was that they were prison inmates and not Sri Lankan ministers or MPs.