The video is not from the recent Assam floods. It dates back to 2019 showing an incident from Vadodara in Gujarat.

A video showing men wearing National Disaster Response Force’s (NDRF) uniform attempting to catch a crocodile in the floodwater is widely circulating on social media. Users claim that this video shows a crocodile which entered in the flooded lanes of Assam.

The video is said to be from Jugijan village in Hojai in Assam. This video is doing rounds on social media amidst the ongoing flood situation in Assam. The death toll in the state due to flood has risen to 134 now.

The caption of the video states, “Crocodile found in Jugijan hojai assam.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on YouTube, whose results led to the same video uploaded in August 2019.

The caption of the video states, “NDRF TEAM CATCHING #CROCODILE | SUCH A #DANGEROUS RESCUE OPERATION DID BY #NDRF TEAM”

Since, the video is available on the internet from 2019 it is clear that the video is from the recent Assam floods.

Next, we ran a keyword search on Google that led us to Times of India’s report published in August 2019. It reported that the incident is from Vadodara in Gujarat. NDRF and forest department officials rescued a 10-feet-long crocodile, which strayed in residential area. Heavy rains across the region had led to waterlogging and garbage accumulation on the streets in many areas. According to wildlife activists, a large number of crocodiles are found in the Vishwamitri River that runs through the middle of Vadodara.

We found a tweet by ANI on 3 August 2019 stating that the video is from Vadsar area in Vadodara, Gujarat showing the NDRF team rescuing the crocodile.

Vadodara: National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams rescued a crocodile from Vadsar area, earlier today. It was handed over to forest department officials. #Gujarat pic.twitter.com/IFXQJezwqc — ANI (@ANI) August 3, 2019

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the video to be False. The video does not show an incident from Assam floods. The video dates back to 2019 when a crocodile was rescued by NDRF in the streets of Vadodara, Gujarat.