A few things remain constant at every Kumbh Mela- mood, colour and crowd. What comes out of the world's largest fair is a plethora of stories and colourful pictures, both on mainstream media and the social media.

Under hashtag #KumbhMela, a collage of pictures posted by user @KrrisshYadhu promoting the ongoing mega event in Prayagraj has gone viral on social media.

advertisement

This post has three images of foreigners in traditional Indian attire performing some Hindu rituals. The user posted them saying, "Dear missionaries, see here... we didn't give any book or money to convert the people forcefully... Hinduism is beyond your imagination...#KumbhMela."

Dear Missionaries, see here... we didn't give any book or money to convert the people forcefully...



Hinduism is beyond your imagination... #KumbhMela pic.twitter.com/CUQbuhMplx — Krrissh Yadhu (@KrrisshYadhu) January 20, 2019

India Today TV's Fact Check team found that these are old pictures of Kumbh Mela from 2013 that was also held at Allahabad (now named as Prayagraj).

Hundreds of people have shared this Facebook post, believing these images are from the ongoing Kumbh Mela.

The same post has been shared on Facebook page, 'India Against Presstitutes', which has more than 5 lakh followers.

One user Siva Prakash in his comment said these are old pictures. But it didn't go well with netizens who started trolling him.

Using verification tools such as Yandex and TinEye, we found that the three photos in question are from Kumbh Mela 2013, taken by different photographers from various locations. In the last five years, they have been used multiple times on several websites.

In the first viral picture, women can be seen holding earthen pots on their heads.

With the help of reverse image search and Wayback Machine, we found the archived picture dated March 24, 2013.

This picture was also used by website WeTellYouHow and blog page Wake up Bharat.

In the second picture, foreign women visitors are seen donning saffron clothes along with other Indian women.

We found this in the photo gallery of website lightrocket.com bearing water mark of journalist Subhendu Sarkar. It is mentioned in the 'Details' section that this photo was taken on February 10, 2013, in the Kumbh Mela of Allahabad.

About the photo, Sarkar writes, "Holy women of European origin (who have imbibed the Hindu way of asceticism) move in procession after taking holy dip at the confluence of the rivers Ganges and Yamuna."

advertisement

Getty Images also carried the same picture of Subhendu Sarkar in their photo gallery.

On reverse image search, we found the third photo also from Kumbh Mela 2013. Newsportal Post.jagran used this picture in one of their articles during that time.

India Today TV's Fact Check team found that the Twitter user conveniently used these five-year-old pictures and passed them as recent ones.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Mamata spoke about Muslims, but she also praised other religions at Opposition's mega rally

ALSO READ | Fact Check: No, thousands of trees were not axed to build PM's helipad in Odisha's Balangir