At least 80 people, including children, were killed in an airstrike by the Saudi-led coalition on a prison in Yemen’s Saada on January 21. The Houthi rebels, who since 2014 are engaged in a war with the Yemen government, allies of Saudi Arabia, have released gruesome visuals from the site of the attack.

Several images claiming to be from Ground Zero are also being shared on social media. Among these are three images of children, injured and buried, who are said to be victims of the airstrike.

advertisement

“Breaking: 2 more bodies have now been pulled out from the rubble, bringing the number of martyrs to 80, and search is still underway for survivors of the crime of aggression on prison in Saada,” the claim along with the images .

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the images to be misleading. None of the images shared with the post is from the Saada attack.

AFWA probe

IMAGE 1

This image shows a girl weeping in front of another child who seems to have passed away. A reverse search revealed that the picture has been in circulation for several years now. The name of one Ali Jadallah was mentioned in many of these posts. Following this clue, we found the Instagram account of Ali Jadallah an award-winning photographer covering Gaza.

Ali’s Instagram profile had a link to his Facebook page, where we found the above image uploaded on November 26, 2014. The Arabic caption with the image Google translates to, “I won the Al Sharjah Award for the best press photo 2014.”

Image 2

This image shows an infant with burnt face and torn clothes.

A reverse search showed that this image too has been widely circulated over the years. Among several results, we found a Turkish news report from 2018 with this photo among a set of images that it claims is being used to spread Kurdish propaganda. This image from Yemen is being used to colour Turkey in poor light on social media, the report said.

The same image was found uploaded on a Facebook page called “The events of aggression on Yemen” on September 14, 2015.

Over the years, this picture has become a powerful representation of the crisis in Yemen. However, it is clear that this child was not a victim of the January 21 airstrike. Image 3 Another disturbing image of a seemingly lifeless child stuck in debris was traced to Aleppo during the Syrian civil war. Khaled Khatib , media coordinator of the Syrian Civil Defence, had tweeted this picture on August 25, 2016. advertisement “We saved Omran, but unfortunately we couldn’t save this girl, she was killed in Aleppo by Assad’s barrel bombs today,” he wrote while sharing the photo. A keyword search on Google revealed that a barrel bomb strike by the Syrian regime in Aleppo’s rebel-held Bab al-Nayrab neighbourhood had killed at least 15 people, including children. News reports of the attack broke on the same day as the image was tweeted by Khaled. We have contacted Khaled for further information. This article will be updated once his response comes in. Coming back to Yemen, tens of thousands of civilians have been killed or wounded in the civil war since 2014. Houthis now control most of the country, including the capital Sanaa, and Saada, the site of the deadly January 21 airstrike. Some visuals of the attack can be seen here. Hence, it is clear that old images are being circulated on social media as of children who lost their lives in the Yemen airstrike.