A video claiming that singer Celine Dion passed away in a plane crash is going viral on social media. The Canadian singer is most popularly known for My heart will go on, the theme song of Hollywood blockbuster Titanic.

The viral video has the logo of news channel CNN on it. The caption of the video says, The Canadian Superstar And Singing Legend Celine Dion Died In Private Plane Crash After Her Courage World Tour In Milwaukee.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this to be a hoax. The viral report has been falsely attributed to CNN. The news channel has never run this news. The singer is alive and no such plane crash took place.

The video has been viewed more than 16 lakh times and received over 5,300 shares. The archived version of the post can be seen here (http://archive.today/vt2Yc).

The video has been shared by many on Facebook as well.

AFWA probe

The viral video with a CNN logo appeared with a small news clip where the anchors begin by saying, We have some terribly sad news to report this morning, heartbreaking, and devastating.

But before they could say the name of the person who died, Dion’s picture appears on screen. A ticker band in bold font runs at the bottom saying, Superstar and singing legend Celine Dion dead at 51.

We found the original news clip of CNN, which appeared on June 8, 2018. In this clip, the death of celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain was reported after the news anchor says, We have some terribly sad news to report this morning, heartbreaking, and devastating.

But in the viral post, the news clip is edited. The website that uploaded this video does not look like a credible news source. It does not have a functional homepage either.

No other credible news channel has run any news recently about the singer’s death. On the other hand, Dion is active on Twitter, as one can see her latest tweets posted a few hours back.

I’m so excited, I can’t wait to share my new music with you ! // J’ai tellement hâte de partager ma nouvelle musique avec vous ! - Céline xx pic.twitter.com/CP8DiHB06j— Celine Dion (@celinedion) November 10, 2019

It looks like the hoax post went viral in the first week of November for the Canadian singer had concerts around that time. On November 6, she tweeted saying, Thank you Detroit for an incredible evening! We’ll be on stage on Nov. 18 in Montreal! Can’t wait!

This is not the first time that a hoax related to Dion’s death has gone viral. In 2013, rumour mills became active, spreading similar news about the singer. Fact checker Snopes had then debunked this news.