Indian elections remain incomplete if there are no politics over cows. Facebook users are now taking potshots at political parties who have allegedly asked for votes in the name of the cow.

Facebook page Ravish Kumar - The Fearless Reporter posted a disturbing picture of hundreds of dead cows being off-loaded by a dumper.

"This is the real picture of cow welfare. Hundreds of cow died in Rajasthan due to starvation. Where have all those people gone who ask for votes in the name of cow [Yahin hai gaw seva ki asliyat. Rajasthan mein bhukh se mari saikro gai. Kahan gaye gai ke naam par vote lene wale]," said the caption in Hindi in this viral post along with the picture.

advertisement

India Today Anti fake News War Room (AFWA) found that this is a misleading claim. Though there are news reports of cows’ death in several cow shelters in Rajasthan, this particular viral image is not from Rajasthan but from Kenya, East Africa.

This was posted last year and has been shared by more than 78,000 users on Facebook till now. Other Facebook pages like Shehla rashid Fan and I support Ravish kumar NDTV have also shared the same viral content.

By using Yandex reverse image search we found an article published in 2014 on a website called Eating my Ethics. The same viral image is used in this article with the caption: "A truck offloads dead cows for burial in Athi River. Hundreds of cows have died at the Kenya Meat Commission while awaiting slaughter. Photo/ABEL MOSINGISI/The East African (2011)".

We found the news in several African news websites. Daily nation published this news in 2009 with the same photograph and caption. Hundreds of cows died due to the lack of fodder awaiting slaughter at the Kenya Meat Corporation ( KMC).

Several other pictures of the same incident were also published in other news websites like The East African.

The viral picture of hundreds of dead cows being off-loaded from a truck is roughly a ten-year-old picture from Kenya and the claim that it was picture form Rajasthan is misleading.

There are, however, several news reports that exposed the pathetic condition of the cow shelters in Rajasthan. The New Indian Express reported this year that five hundred cows died in ten days in various cow shelters in Rajasthan because of lack of fodder.