Communal violence broke out in Rajasthan’s Karauli on April 2 after a Hindu motor cycle rally was reportedly pelted with stones while passing through a Muslim dominated area. Since then, social media has been flooded with videos and images claiming to be from the incident.

A video which claims to be from Karauli, featuring a Hindu mob sloganeering in front of a mosque has gone viral.

advertisement

Several people on Twitter and Facebook shared the video clip with captions like, “Where are the so-called champions of Human Rights when houses of Muslims are being burned in India #Karauli #Karauliviolence”.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AWFA) found that this video was from Kolar, Karnataka, and showed a Hindu mob in front of the Hussaini Makan mosque on March 27.

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID and reverse image search, we found the viral video was published on a couple of websites including Al Jazeera Mubasher in late March.

According to these reports, Mohammed Irshad, a Karnataka-based reporter shared the video on March 29 on his Twitter account. He wrote, “Tejasvi Surya had organised a cycle rally from Bangalore to Kolar on March 21. When the rally reached the Hussaini Makan Masjid of Kolar the people who participated in the rally stopped and started doing this nuisance. What is the message?”

Later, in another tweet, he shared another video and said, “Sorry for the Date: It was organised on March 27. Sanghparivar members Dancing in front of Shahbaz Shah Khalander Dargah at Kolar.”

To verify the information independently, we searched Google Maps for the Hussaini Makan Masjid of Kolar and found an image of the Mosque taken in 2018.

Comparing the facade of the Hussaini Makan Masjid with the one seen in the viral video, we found striking resemblances. This confirmed that the mosque seen in the viral video was indeed the Hussaini Makan Masjid.

Eye witness account

To make sure this information was correct, we contacted locals residing near the Hussaini Makan Masjid. With the help of Google Maps, we were able to contact a local businessman called Muhammad Akram who resides in the same area.

After watching the viral video, Akram identified the building and confirmed that the date of the incident was March 27. When asked if this rally was organised by Surya, Akram said, “There were two processions that took place on that day in front of the Mosque. One organized by Surya, and the other by the Bajrang Dal.” He could not identify which one was captured in the viral video.

advertisement

AFWA then contacted a local journalist, Ayub Khan, to cross-check the information. Khan said that the viral video captured the cycle rally organised by Surya on March 27. “The rally passed by the Hussaini Makan Masjid on March 27. It was a peaceful rally with usual chanting and sloganeering,” said Khan.

Surya, the Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Bengaluru South constituency, organised “Cycle 2 Freedom”, a 75 km ride from Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru to Kolar, on March 27. The rally was part of “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”, an initiative of the Government of India to celebrate and commemorate “75 years of independence and the glorious history of its people, culture, and achievements.”

On March 27, the Surya also tweeted photos of the rally from Kolar.

While we could not independently confirm whether the rally shown in the viral video was the one organised by Tejasvi Surya on March 27, eyewitness accounts and open-source intelligence helped us verify that it showed the Hussaini Makan Masjid in Kolar on March 27. The video had nothing to do with the violence in Karauli, Rajasthan.