The Election Commission confirmed to Fact Crescendo that the viral post is False. They have not announced the official dates of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly Elections next year.

Political campaigning is intensifying in Uttar Pradesh regarding the upcoming assembly elections in 2022.

The present chief minister’s tenure will end next year on 14 March 2022. The Election Commission till then has the responsibility of conducting the upcoming elections before the tenure of the previous government ends.

Amidst this, a viral post on social media is circulating with the claim that the Election Commission has declared the dates for the Assembly elections in 2022. The message further states that the elections will be held in seven phases in Uttar Pradesh from February 4 to 28, elections in different areas of the state.



The post going viral reads, “In Lucknow Uttar Pradesh, elections in seven phases … February 4, February 8, 11 February, 15 February 19, 23 February and 28 February. First Phase- 4 February (Assembly Constituency 60) Najibabad, Nagina, Dhapur, Dhampur, Nahtaur, Bijnor, Chandpur, Noorpur, Kanth, Thakurdwara, Moradabad Rural, Moradabad City, Kundarki, Bilari, Chandausi, Asmauli, Sambhal, Swar, Chamraua, Bilaspur, Rampur, Milak, Dhanaura, Navgan Sad At, Amroha, Hasanpur, Gunnour, Bisauli, Sahaswan, Bilsi, Badayun, Shekhupur, Dataganj, Bahedi, Mirganj, Bhojipura, Nawabganj, Faridpur, Bithari Chainpur, Bareilly, Bareilly Cantt, Amla, Pilibhit, Barkheda, Puranpur, Bisalpur, Katra, Jalalabad, Tilhar, Puayan, Shahjahanpur, Dadraul, Paliya, Nighasan, Gola, Srinagar, Dhaurhara, Lakhimpur, Kasta and Mohammedi” (sic)

Facebook Post | Website Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google to find relevant news report that testifies the viral post. However, we could not find any credible news report that published the same news.



We found a news report by India.com that reported on December 15 that the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections are likely to be held in seven to eight phases. The Election Commission will release the list of election dates by January 5 next year.

Archive Link

With another keyword search on Google, we found that the dates going viral were fixed for the 2012 elections in Uttar Pradesh. We got this information from an article published on the website of India Today on 25 December 2011.

In 2012, the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections were held in seven phases. The elections were held from 4 February to 28 February 2012. The counting of votes took place on 4 March 2012.

However, later the date of the election was changed and the elections started from 8 February 2012 and the counting of votes was done on 6 March 2012.

You can read this information in the news article by India Today published on 9 January 2012.

Fact Crescendo contacted Additional Chief Electoral Officer and Special Secretary, Election Commission of Uttar Pradesh, Pramod Kumar Upadhyay. He told us that, “We are not aware of the information given in the post that is going viral, nor do we have any information about the date of Uttar Pradesh assembly elections from ECI or in how many phases, so far we are not informed about any such thing. The claim that is going viral is false.”

Then Fact Crescendo contacted Joint Director of the Election Commission, Anuj Chandak. He told us “So far the Election Commission has not made any announcement regarding the dates of the elections. As soon as the Election Commission takes any decision, it (the election dates) will be declared through press conference. The viral news is wrong.”

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the viral post on social media to be False. The Election Commission has not announced the official dates of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Elections 2022. The viral dates on social media is from the year 2012.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)