The much-awaited Signature Bridge is finally ready for Delhi. But, a day before its inauguration, the ruling Aam Aadmi Party has courted a controversy by tweeting three photos that it claimed are of the bridge.

India Today TV's Fact Check Team found that one of the photos is not of the Signature Bridge in Delhi but is rather of the Erasmus Bridge of Rotterdam in the Netherlands.

advertisement

On Saturday night, the official Twitter handle of the Aam Aadmi Party posted a tweet saying, "Delhi! Here is your pride The Signature Bridge"

"Delhi !

Here is your pride ..The Signature Bridge . Ready to welcome you tomorrow for Inauguration Ceremony.. 4PM onwards.. Sunday, 4th Nov."- @msisodia pic.twitter.com/agEuZhrjib AAP (@AamAadmiParty) November 3, 2018

AAP also posted three pictures purportedly of the Signature Bridge, connecting the Outer Ring Road with the Wazirabad Road on the western flank of the Yamuna river.

Soon after the post, people of Twitter started taking digs at the AAP and said one of the pictures is not of the Signature Bridge.

Delhi BJP spokesperson Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga replied on AAP's tweet by giving the link of the video of the Erasmus Bridge.

While searching Erasmus Bridge on the internet, the India Today Fact Check team found a nearly two-minute long video named, "Illumination of the Erasmus Bridge in Rotterdam" on YouTube. At 0.27 seconds, the exact frame of the illumined Erasmus Bridge has been used in the tweet posted by AAP. The skyline and the skyscrapers at the background seen in the picture match with the video.

Erasmus Bridge is an engineering marvel which is considered to be one of the tallest bridges of Netherlands. The 139-metre high bridge is an important landmark of Rotterdam. The bridge was named after Desiderius Erasmus, a prominent Christian renaissance humanist, also known as Erasmus of Rotterdam.

The 'Signature Bridge' of Delhi is also an asymmetrical bridge. According to news reports, this 675-metre long bridge was first conceptualised in 2004. The bridge will be thrown open to public on November 5, Monday.