Pictures of two birds, tinier than a human nail, are going viral on social media. One can see the tiny birds on the nail and fingertip of a human hand. It is being claimed that these are pictures of a hummingbird, the smallest bird in the world.

Facebook user 'Ban Boy Sahid' posted the pictures on a group called "BONDHUR MOTO BONDHU HOBO". The caption in Bengali translates to, "World's smallest bird hummingbird. Saw it for the first time."

advertisement

Here's the link of the posted photos on Facebook.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the bird in the viral images is not a hummingbird. In fact, it is not a real bird, but a miniature created by a US-based artist.

Till the filing of this story, the post has been shared more than 15,000 times. The archived version of the post can be seen here. The post is quite viral on Facebook.



AFWA PROBE

To verify the claim, we ran a reverse search on one of the images and found it on Pinterest with credits to "Malinik Miniatures".

We further searched about "Malinik Miniatures" and found a Facebook page by the same name. This page contains the viral photos along with images of some other miniatures as well.

We found that the birds in the viral photos are actually miniatures created by US-based artist Ina. She posted one of the viral images on Facebook on October 15, naming the bird "Chestnut-backed Chickadee OOAK". She posted the second image on October 18 on her Facebook page.

Her bio says, "My name is Ina - or Malinik Miniatures. I'm from Berkovitsa [Bulgaria, Europe] and currently, live in Illinois [USA]. I specialise in animals and mostly birds - everything is individually handmade and one of a kind. I work with polymer clay and wire to make the sculpture and cover it with feathers or fibers. I always try to make my creatures as realistic as possible and so much enjoy doing that :)"

Ina has also posted the videos of her miniature work.

Some of these miniatures are also available for purchase online.

SMALLEST BIRD IN THE WORLD

The smallest bird on Earth is indeed a hummingbird.

Most hummingbirds measure 3-5 inches, and the smallest in this species is the two-inch-long bee hummingbird. They have longer beaks that allow them to reach into crevices of flowers in search of nectar. Different species have different colours of feathers and they have a distinct ability to survive the cold weather.

However, the viral images are not of a hummingbird. They are actually miniatures created by an artist.