A short clip of Sharad Pawar getting slapped by a man in public is circulating on social media with the claim that this was in reaction to his recent statement on Sachin Tendulkar.

The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader had asked Tendulkar to “exercise caution while speaking about any other field” after the Master Blaster, like many actors, sportspersons and politicians, tweeted for unity following posts by Rihanna, Greta Thunberg and Mia Khalifa in support of the farmers’ agitation.

advertisement

Several Facebook and Twitter users have posted the 10-second clip with an NDTV logo on it.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the incident took place in Delhi on November 24, 2011. Pawar, then the Union agriculture minister, was slapped by one Arvinder Singh over rising prices of essential commodities.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here, and here.

The Pawar slapgate

With the help of keyword search, we found that Sharad Pawar, then the Union agriculture minister in the Congress-led UPA government, was slapped by a man called Arvinder Singh, aka Harvinder, on November 24, 2011.

The incident took place at the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) headquarters in the Capital as Pawar was leaving the building premises after attending a literary function. The entire incident was caught on camera. The viral video is a small portion from an NDTV report on the incident in 2011.

The man, who was later arrested, had allegedly attacked Pawar over rising prices of essential commodities. “This is my answer to corrupt politicians,” he shouted while being whisked away by security guards.

As per news reports, Arvinder is the same man who’d earlier slapped former Union telecom minister Sukhram inside the premises of Delhi high court. Sukhram was sentenced to five years imprisonment in a corruption case.

Arvinder was arrested in 2019 after he was declared a Proclaimed Offender by a Delhi court in 2014 as he went missing during the course of trial. Therefore, it is confirmed that this incident of a man slapping Sharad Pawar is from 2011 and has no connection to the leader’s recent comments on Tendulkar.

READ | Fact Check: This emotional post about a farmer and his soldier son is misleading

READ | Fact Check: This video of liquor distribution is not from farmers’ protest

READ | Fact Check: Morphed photo shows Congress workers offering cake to Mia Khalifa's poster