Amid continuing tension between the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Modi government, a screenshot of a purported tweet by Hindi daily Amar Ujala attributing a national loss of Rs 9 lakh crore as a result of demonetisation has gone viral. This RBI indictment of the government's 2016 move to demonetise high-value notes is in a screenshot of a tweet featuring in a Facebook post from an account called 'With INC'.

advertisement

The screenshot of the tweet, which looks like it is from the official Twitter account of Amar Ujala Ujala (@AmarUjalaNews ), shows a collage of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and RBI Governor Urjit Patel with the comment "Bhakti se Bahar Aaye RBI Governor Modi ke Chuddaye Paseene". A message attached with the post reads: "Demonetization Scam Exposed by RBI Governor!!!"

The post has already been shared more than 3,000 times at the time of writing this story, and the page has over 8 lakh followers.

The India Today Fact Check team has, however, found that the screenshot of the tweet is fake and that the RBI Governor has never made such statement on demonetisation.

On comparing the tweet shown in the post with tweets from the official handle of Amar Ujala, we found that the formats of the two are different. Tweets from the verified handle of Amar Ujala differ in the placement of text and space from that in the screenshot in question.

Then again, we couldn't find any such statement from Patel where he has talked about the loss due to demonetisation. In its annual report released in August 2018, the RBI disclosed that 99.3 per cent of the old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes have come back to the banks since demonetisation; a fact reported by most news organisations. It may be remembered that the opposition Congress had demanded an apology from PM Modi after this disclosure from the RBI.

Finally, we reached out to the News Editor of Amar Ujala, Anil Pandey, who confirmed that the viral tweet is fake and that they have not shared such a tweet ever.

READ | Fact Check: DD staffer from viral Naxal attack video is not dead



READ | Fact Check: False claims take off after Indonesian air crash