A video is being widely shared on social media, showing the Farakka dam in West Bengal is overflowing, and resulting in extensive flooding in neighbouring Bangladesh.

About 18 km from Bangladesh’s northwest border, Farakka dam was constructed over the Ganges river in West Bengal. In June 2022, Bangladesh’s Sylhet area saw significant flooding due to unrelenting downpours, leaving more than four million people trapped.

The video is shared on Facebook with a caption in Bengali language: “ভারতের ফারাক্কা বাধ এর 109 টি গেট দিয়ে পানি প্রবেশ করছে বাংলাদেশে। তিস্তা টিপাইমুখী সহ মোট ১১ টি পানির গেইট খুলে দিয়েছে ভারত সরকার। ডুবে যাওয়ার আশঙ্কা বেশ কয়েকটি জেলা। মহান আল্লাহ তায়ালা আমাদের এই বাংলাদেশকে ও দেশের সকলকে বন্যা কবল থেকে হেফাজত করুন। আমিন” (English translation: Water is entering Bangladesh through 109 gates of Farakka dam in India. The government of India has opened a total of 11 water gates, including Tista Tipaimukhi. Fear of drowning in several districts. The great Allah Ta’ala to this Bangladesh of ours, too. Protect everyone in the country from floods.)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

We extracted keyframes from the viral video using InVid Tool and performed a Reverse Image Search. We found a YouTube channel that carried the same viral video on August 11, 2019, with a caption: “Hemavthi Dam Gorur”.

Taking a cue from this, we found that the Gorur Dam is located in the Hassan district of Karnataka, on Hemavathi river. The distance from the Farakka Barrage is over 2,300 km.

Below is the comparison between the viral video and YouTube video.

We also searched for the Gorur dam on Google Maps and the images correspond to the YouTube video. This clearly means the dam seen in the viral video is Gorur dam in Karnataka.

Thus, it is evident from the above information that the viral claim is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news