The man in the video is Supreme Court advocate Bhanu Pratap Singh and he is not the owner of Himalaya. He gave this speech at an anti CAA protest in Delhi.

A video of man giving a speech against Reliance, Jio, RSS and Baba Ramdev is being widely shared on social media with the claim that the man is the owner of the Himalaya Company. Users further claim that the owner of the Himalaya Company belongs to the Muslim community. The post requests people to boycott Himalaya’s products and chose other options.

The caption of the post, “This muslim man is the owner of Himalaya Company. Listen to his speech and his opinion and become aware. They make beauty products, Ayurvedic medicine, liv52 syrup, Himalaya neem, Tulsi and hand sanitizer. As customers, we trust the company and are emotionally attached with them. However, see this is their truth. Send this message to all groups and ask them to not buy Himalaya products. There are several options in the market.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check–

We ran a keyword search on YouTube to find the original video, whose results led us to the longer version of the video published by Times Express on 25 January 2020. The caption of the video states “Stop saying Hindustani – Bhanu Pratap Singh! There was panic among Muslims on CAA.” According to the description of the video, “Watch the full video of well-known lawyer of our country Bhanu Pratap Singh’s speech while addressing the people sitting on dharna in Mustafabad, Delhi after hearing in the Supreme Court on CAA.”

According to the information given in the video, the man is advocate Bhanu Pratap Singh.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5UILmsGneGE&t=279s&ab_channel=TimesExpress

Who is advocate Bhanu Pratap Singh?

According to the information given by Bhanu Pratap Singh on his Twitter handle, he is a Supreme Court lawyer and is the national president of the National Janhit Sangharsh Party (NJSP).

Who is the owner of Himalaya Company?

The website of Himalaya Company stated that the founder of the Himalaya Company is Mohammad Manal, he is also the chairman of the company. His picture is available on the company’s website.

The image comparison below clearly shows that Bhanu Pratap Singh, from the viral video and Mohammad Manal, owner of Himalaya Company, are both different people.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with viral video on social media to be False. The man in the video is not the owner of the Himalaya Company. He is a Supreme Court advocate, named Bhanu Pratap Singh.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)