Doctors and health workers around the world are fighting the coronavirus pandemic by putting their own life at risk. According to viral posts on social media, one such corona warrior Dr. Manish Patil has died while saving patients.

A viral photo of a lady doctor is claimed to be that of Dr. Manisha Patil from Mumbai who is believed to have died after successfully treating 188 corona patients. As you can see in the below screenshot, a Facebook page had shared this post on 26th April.

The same photo and claim are being shared in the name of Dr. Manish Patel as well.

Upon investigation, Fact Crescendo found this news to be Fake!

Facebook | Achieve

FACT-CHECK

A simple Google reverse image search took us to the Twitter account of one Dr. Richa Rajpoot. She has put out a tweet clarifying that her photo is being misused in the name of Manisha Patil.

Tagging UP Police and Cyber Police, she tweeted, “People are sharing false rumours about my death on social media. I am alive and don’t kill me before my time. Please report all such posts.”

फेसबुक पर कुछ लोग ये झूठी पोस्ट शेयर कर रहे है

अभी हम जिंदा है यार इतनी जल्दी मत मारो 😑



ऐसी किसी भी पोस्ट की रिपोर्ट करे प्लीज 🙏@CyberDost @Uppolice kindly look into it pic.twitter.com/fBw9BezFlR — Dr. Richa Rajpoot (Modi ka Parivar) (@doctorrichabjp) April 25, 2020

Archive

She had also put up a video clarifying her death rumours. She tweeted, “I am alive. There are false claims being shared about my death on Facebook and Twitter. I am amused that somebody may beat someone putting blame on my ghost. Such rumours have resulted in the deaths of so many people before. Share my message as much as you can.”

"अभी हम जिंदा है "



हमारे मौत की फेक न्यूज़ फेसबुक और ट्विटर पर बहुत वायरल हो गयी है , हँसी तो आती है इसपर लेकिन डर भी लगता है कही कोई हमारे भूत की अफवाह फैला कर कुटाई न कर दे ..ऐसी अफवाहों पर कई लोगो की जान जा चुकी है 🙏



इस पोस्ट को ज्यादा से ज्यादा लोगो तक पहुंचाने में मदद करे pic.twitter.com/GqSkhl0gOP — Dr. Richa Rajpoot (Modi ka Parivar) (@doctorrichabjp) April 26, 2020

Archive

The photo used in the viral posts was first uploaded by Dr. Richa in response to the #BlueTwitter. You can see it below. From here it was taken and misused in the name of fictional Dr. Manisha Patil.

Archive

Many fake accounts have started to appear on social media under Dr. Manisha Patil’s name using Dr. Richa’s photo. She had reported many of them.

Archive

CONCLUSION

It is clear now that the viral photo is not of Dr. Manisha Patil. The photo is of Dr. Richa Rajpoot. Her photo is being misused in the name of Manisha Patil. She has rubbished the rumors about her death. We also urge our readers not to fall for such fake news.