Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began, one of the bigger news stories in India has been Indian nationals who are stuck in the war-torn country and the subsequent evacuation operations that is underway. Social media has been filled with testimonies of Indian students stuck in Ukraine.

One such came from Vaishali Yadav, an Indian medical student who took to social media and urged the Indian government to help stranded students.

advertisement

Many on social media claimed that her video plea to the Indian government was not made in Ukraine at all. Rather, she recorded it from her home in Uttar Pradesh’s Hardoi, in an attempt to defame the government. Multiple Fact-Checkers, however, debunked that claim.

Despite this, Yadav continues to be featured on social media posts with dubious claims. An image of a girl sitting in front of a group of policemen has gone viral on social media claiming Yadav was taken into custody for her supposed attempt to defame the government.

A user has posted the aforementioned photo alongside a caption in Hindi that roughly translated to, “UP police ‘rescued’ Vaishali Yadav, the daughter of a Samajwadi Party leader, who tried to defame the Indian government and Narendra Modi by making fake videos.”

The Indian Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this claim to be false. The young woman seen sitting in the viral image is not Vaishali Yadav at all. She is Kamala Chaudhary, a woman who was arrested by the Rajasthan Police recently.

AFWA Probe

We searched for reports on Vaishali Yadav’s arrest or detention with relevant keywords but we found nothing. Following this, we ran a reverse search on the image itself.

It took us to a report published by Zee Rajasthan on March 3, 2022, carrying the same image. But there was no mention of Yadav in that report. Instead, it reported the woman was Kamala Chaudhary, who has been arrested by the Nagaur Police for posting videos with firearms on social media and threatening political leaders.

With the help of these clues, we further searched for more relevant results and found a video report published by Dainik Jagran on March 3, 2022. The report noted that Kamala Chaudhary allegedly challenged the superintendent of police, and called herself “Rajasthan’s new lady don.”

AFWA also reached out to Nagaur's ASP Rajesh Meena who confirmed to us that the lady in the viral image was indeed Kamala Chaudhary and not Vaishali Yadav.

Hence, we conclude that the photo and the claim going viral on social media are false. The photo does not feature Vaishali Yadav.