Air conditioners, which people seem to be in a relationship with for some summers now, have ironically generated a lot of heat on social media recently.

What sparked the controversy was an announcement by the Ministry of Power of the central government last week which said that the government is going to ask all the air conditioner manufacturers to set the default temperature of the machines at 24 degrees Celsius.

advertisement

The term 'default temperature' was interpreted differently by various people and many were fuming at the idea of the government controlling what people eat or how they will live in their bedrooms.

Congress spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi quipped that the next idea that the government may come up with might be to stop bathing to save water.

Nidhi Razdan questioned the state and its temperature control settings.

We decided to check the facts to filter the air of confusion around this decision.

The major point of the dispute is that after the decision is implemented, will it not be possible to run our air conditioners below the default temperature of 24 degrees Celsius even if you want to?

The press release of the Ministry of Power, present on the Press Information Bureau website dated June 22 reads, "A meeting with major air-conditioner manufacturers was held today under the chairmanship of Shri RK Singh, where the manufacturers were advised to keep the default setting of air conditioners at 24 degrees Celsius and also to carry out labelling indicating the optimum temperature setting for the benefits of consumers both from their financial and health points of view. These temperatures setting will be in the range of 24-26 degrees Celsius."

We spoke to Chandra Bhushan, the deputy director general at Centre for Science and Environment to understand what does it mean.

Chandra Bhushan explained that the default temperature only means the temperature at which the air conditioner is automatically set when you switch on the AC.

You can always change it, bring it up or down if you wish so.

If you do not tinker with the settings, the compressor of the air conditioner will stop after bringing it down till 24 and will automatically start once the temperature goes up. - Chandra Bhushan said

So, will a higher temperature set on the AC cut down the power consumption as claimed by the ministry?

Certainly asserts Bhushan.

Lower the target temperature set in the air conditioner, harder and longer the machine will have to work to bring down the room temperature to that level which means much more electricity consumption. - Chandra Bhushan said

CSE has also issued a statement welcoming the decision and said it a step in the right direction and a government intervention was necessary.

ACs can use up 80 per cent of the household electricity budget. A recent CSE study has shown that almost up to 50 per cent of electricity used during summer months in Delhi is consumed only for cooling. This quantum is so big that it can power 9 cities the size of Chandigarh during summer months. - CSE study explains

We spoke to the power minister RK Singh about the issue.

He said that as of now, it was just an advisory, but within six months government plans to make it mandatory. He also said that just by running the air conditioner at one degree higher temperature, one can save up to six per cent energy.

The government press release also claims that countries like Japan have put in place regulation to keep the temperature at 28 degrees Celsius.

We checked for this and found the claim to be true.

According to information available on the website of ministry of environment of Japan, way back in 2005, the government's "Cool Biz" campaign was started under prime minister Koizumi which mandated that during summers, the air conditioner be set up at 28 degrees Celsius and people wear cool and comfortable clothes.

A report by TERI, the Energy and Resources Institute, in 2017 also highlighted that ACs are one of the biggest power guzzlers and steps are needed to check the impact of air conditioners on the climate.

advertisement

The report said Reducing demand for cooling is one of the primary ways to reduce the climate impact of ACs. Better architectural designs, thermostat management (eg; allowing indoor temperature to swing and setting higher cooling setpoints) and changing behaviours can effectively reduce the demand for mechanical cooling.

So it is clear that the outburst of people about government dictating the temperature of ACs is misplaced and not based on facts.