With Israel establishing diplomatic ties with some Gulf countries recently, a video of a large crowd outside a building is going viral with the claim that men and women in Saudi Arabia are jostling to enter a movie theatre showing an Israeli film.

Several Facebook users have posted the 1.37-minute video with the caption, “Inaugural function of cinema by Mohammad Bin Salman Al Saud, in Saudi Arab, where an Israeli film is on display. This cinema is a part of 50 thousand such cinemas, which will be in place till ending 2030 in collaboration with Israel.”

advertisement

Watch the video here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. The clip from last year shows people trying to gatecrash a discount store in Saudi Arabia’s Hafar Al-Batin city.

The archived versions of the post are saved here and here.

Using InVID and keyword search, we found the video went viral earlier as well, with the misleading claim that it is a scene from the opening of the first cinema hall in Saudi Arabia.

We also found that several Twitter users from the Middle East had posted this clip on April 20, 2019, saying this was the crowd in front of a discount store in Hafar Al-Batin. Some, including media houses, had posted the same video but without the overlaid graphics.

Taking this as a clue, and with the help of keyword search in Arabic, we found an Arabic fact-check website had debunked the old viral claim in 2019 saying it was not the opening of a cinema hall in Saudi Arabia, but a discount store in Hafar Al-Batin.

In fact, the article claimed that it was the scene of a “stampede” in front of a discount store in Hafar Al-Batin in 2019.

Hence, it can be confirmed that the viral claim of an Israeli movie on display in a Saudi cinema hall is misleading. The video from last year shows people trying to enter a discount store in Saudi Arabia’s Hafar Al-Batin city.

Also read: Fact Check: The truth about Tablighi Jamaat celebrating PM Modi's birthday inside Nizamuddin Markaz

Also read: Fact Check: Why Rakhi Sawant was draped in the Pakistani flag