Spread the truth:

An article is published on website muslimworld.in claiming a lady protested in Gorakhpur by stripping down to her underwear against teasing by goons under Yogiraj i.e. Governance of CM Yogi Adityanath.

Although the image is genuine, unfortunate event did happen but rest all is false.

No, lady didn’t strip in Gorakhpur, nor recently and certainly not under Yogiraj.

This happened a decade back, year 2007, in Rajkot.

Pooja chauhan chose this method of protest against police inaction, by stripping out of frustration as Police was not paying heed to her complains, how she was being beaten and abused by her husband and in-laws for dowry and not bearing child.

And then protest did bear fruits, as Police immediately arrested her husband.

RAJKOT: Conservative Rajkot went into convulsions on Wednesday when alleged mental and physical abuse by her husband’s family drove a 22-year-old woman to strip to her underwear and walk through the city in protest.

Pooja Chauhan said she had taken to this unique protest after being constantly harassed for not bringing dowry and bearing a girl-child.

The effect was immediate. The police arrested her husband Pratapsinh Chauhan, parents-in-law and neighbours Veji Bharwad and Vinu Dalit on Wednesday, after she threatened to scale up her protest and march nude to the police commissioner’s office if she did not get justice.

“The arrests were made on the basis of Pooja Chauhan’s complaint. We are also planning to take action against Pooja for indecent behaviour in a public place. However, we will examine her mental condition before taking any action,” said Rajkot police commissioner K Nityanandam.

Residents in the busy thoroughfares of Race Course Road and Yagnik Road were left gaping in shock on Tuesday evening as Pooja walked in her inner-wear, wielding a baseball bat and bangles, headed for the police commissioner’s office.

She walked for about an hour and went home later as the police commissioner was out of station.

Police sources said Pooja had a love marriage with Pratapsinh, a resident of Gandhigram area, about three years ago, but her in-laws kept harassing her for dowry. The harassment increased when she gave birth to a daughter eight months ago. She finally left home five months ago and has been living on her own with her daughter, Anjali.

Sources said police inaction on her complaints had driven her to stage such a protest. “When her complaint against her in-laws failed to evoke any response, she tried to immolate herself at the office of the police commissioner last Friday but police personnel stopped her,” said a source in the commissionerate. Lie:

योगीराज – योगी के गढ़ गोरखपुर में छेड़खानी से आहत महिला ने थाने के सामने कपड़े उतारे

मुख्यमंत्री योगी आदित्यनाथ के गढ़ गोरखपुर से बेहद ही शर्मनाक घटना सामने आ रही है जिसके मुताबिक झंगहा थाना क्षेत्र के एक गांव की रहने वाली महिला आज थाना गेट पर निर्वस्त्र हो गई महिला थाने से कुछ दूरी पर विसारता की दुकान चलाती है। महिला का आरोप है कि बगल का युवक अक्सर नहाते समय ताक छांक करता है। इसी बात की शिकायत लेकर वो थाने जा रही थी कि गेट के सामने ही युवक का पिता मिल गया।

महिला के साथ कई अन्य महिलाएं भी थी इन लोगों में वहीं तकरार हो गई, इसके बाद महिला वहीँ पर निर्वस्त्र हो गई। मौके पर पहुंची पुलिस महिला को कपड़ा ढक कर थाने ले गई जहां कुछ देर बाद महिला अपने लोगों के साथ घर लौट गई। झंगहा कस्बे से कुछ दूरी पर स्थित एक गांव की महिला कस्बे में ही चुड़ी की दुकान चलाती है।

महिला का आरोप है कि जब वह नहाती है तो उसके बगल का रहने वाला युवक अपने मकान के छत से महिला को नहाते हुए ताक झांक करता है। महिला के अनुसार उसने कई बार एतराज जताया लेकिन युवक अपनी हरकतों से बाज नहीं आया।

Related