India suffered a humiliating defeat in the first ODI against Australia at Mumbai’s Wankhede Stadium. Australia is currently touring India for a three-match series that began on January 14. However, something else is also making news on social media.

Many have claimed that authorities did not allow spectators dressed in black inside the stadium fearing that it might be used to protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens.

advertisement

Twitter user North Stand Gang Wankhede posted a message that said, *IMPORTANT NOTICE*Those who are coming for #INDvAUS match, kindly don’t wear black colour tshirts. Entries are restricted for some security reasons for the same. The archived version can be seen here.

*IMPORTANT NOTICE*

Those who are coming for #INDvAUS match, kindly don't wear black colour tshirts

Entries are restricted for some security reasons for the same@BCCI @MumbaiCricAssoc — North Stand Gang - Wankhede (@NorthStandGang) January 14, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that no such directive was issued by either the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) which takes care of Wankhede Stadium or Mumbai Police. In fact, many spectators wore black to the stadium and were allowed inside.

No black inside Wankhede?

On January 14, soon after the tweet by North Stand Gang Wankhede, Twitter user Rahul Desai posted, I’m at the Wankhede stadium today. The colour Black is being banned (t-shirts, caps, anything) because it’s a symbol of protest. The archived version can be seen here.

Desai’s post went viral and was shared by many on Facebook as well. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA went through pictures at Wankhede on Twitter as the first ODI was on and found that people wearing black can be seen inside the stadium. A journalist from "The Hindu" tweeted, "I can see hundreds of spectators wearing black garments in the Wankhede Stadium since afternoon."

Another spectator tweeted, "We were at wankhede. A friend and his wife were in black nobody stopped them. Saw a couple of others too !!"



Contradictions in a single tweet

Twitter user Rahul Desai, minutes after his viral post, tweeted again, My black cap was confiscated. Had to convince a friend to put it in her purse instead. Another friend in a black t-shirt put the flag around himself to be allowed in.

Therefore, it is not clear if his cap was confiscated, by whom it was confiscated or if he saved it by putting it in a friend’s purse. On the other hand, as he declares in the same tweet, his friend did manage to get in wearing a black t-shirt. We have asked him about this but he has not replied till the filing of this story. The story will be updated when he replies.

advertisement

MCA, police deny claim

Senior policemen at the entrance of Wankhede told AFWA that no one was being screened based on the colour of their attire. DCP Sangramsingh Nishandar, who is in charge of the zone where Wankhede is located, also said that the message about black t-shirts or caps or any other attire being banned from the stadium is fake.

MCA secretary Sanjay Naik too denied that any such ban against black attire had been imposed. He was at the stadium when we spoke to him and he said, I can see that at least 30 per cent of spectators have come in black. Even I am wearing black. So how can anyone say that people wearing black are not being allowed? This is just a rumour.

Face-off inside stadium

Protests against CAA and NRC did take place inside Wankhede during the match on January 14. The protesters were wearing two sets of clothing and took off the outer layer to reveal letters painted on a white t-shirt.

The protesters, one of them seen in black, stood next to each other to reveal NO CAA, NO NRC and NO NPR slogans. After they started sloganeering, security officials asked them to move out. Incidentally, soon after the protesters were caught on camera, chants of Modi, Modi and Bharat Mata Ki Jai rang out from among the crowd.

advertisement Propaganda fails as the real voice of India is heard!



Some people want to protest & show their tshirts reading 'No NPR, No NCR, No CAA' at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai.



The crowd in the background chants 'Modi Modi'.#IndiaSupportsCAA pic.twitter.com/ZLsaCWOudA— Charu Pragya (@CharuPragya) January 14, 2020

Therefore, it is clear that the viral post about people with black attire not being allowed inside Wankhede Stadium during the India-Australia ODI on January 14 is not true.

(With inputs from Saurabh Vaktania)