A video of Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav went viral with the claim that the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh misbehaved with a senior doctor at a hospital in Kannauj because he was Brahmin.

Several Facebook users shared a 28-second-long video where Yadav can be heard scolding a man and asking him to leave the place. Facebook users have claimed that Yadav misbehaved with Dr. DS Mishra. a senior physician at a Kannauj hospital, because he was Brahmin.

advertisement

In Hindi, the viral posts claimed, “Akhilesh Yadav’s attitude towards senior doctor DS Mishra in Kannauj betrays his mentality. After asking the name. The way Akhilesh treated him after realising he was Brahmin; Does the SP supremo think being a Brahmin is sinful?”

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this claim misleading. In 2020, while meeting hospitalised victims of a bus accident in Kannauj, Yadav drove a medical officer out of the ward. The officer told reporters Yadav lost his temper because one patient complained about not receiving a compensatory cheque. The doctor, however, told Yadav the patient had received it.

AFWA probe

With the help of keywords search we have found the viral video on YouTube uploaded in January 2020 by The Times of India. The title reads, “SP President Akhilesh Yadav drives Kannauj doctor away from ward, says ‘tum bhaag jaao’”

As per the news report, Yadav visited a hospital to meet those injured in the bus accident. A bus with over 40 passengers collided with a truck in Uttar Pradesh's Kannauj and caught on fire on January 10. 2020.

Taking this as a clue, with the help of a keywords-search, we have found a longer version of the video, and taken from a different camera angle. It was shared by the news agency ANI on January 14, 2020.

The caption of the ANI tweet reads, “Former CM Akhilesh Yadav who went to meet injured of Kannauj accident, at a hospital in Chhibramau asks Emergency Medical Officer to leave the room as he speaks about compensation amount been given to the injured,says, ‘Tum sarkar ka paksh nahi le sakte...bahar bhaag jao’.”

In the video, one can hear a man standing beside the injured complaining that the victim had not received a compensatory “cheque”. Somebody from the background refuted this and said, “He has received it.”

Yadav then told the second man, “You shouldn’t talk because you are a government official. You will take the side of the government. You may be an RSS or a BJP man , but you are a very junior official. So, you do not have to interpret what he is saying. You get lost from here. Just leave the place.”

advertisement

#WATCH Former CM Akhilesh Yadav who went to meet injured of Kannauj accident, at a hospital in Chhibramau asks Emergency Medical Officer to leave the room as he speaks about compensation amount been given to the injured,says, "Tum sarkar ka paksh nahi le sakte...bahar bhaag jao". pic.twitter.com/U3DrdHI1se — ANI UP/Uttarakhand (@ANINewsUP) January 14, 2020

We found that multiple news outlets who reported this in January 2020, sharing with same video.

According to these news reports, while meeting the injured, Yadav was informed by a patient party that they did not receive the compensatory cheque from the government. But the emergency medical officer of the hospital Dr. DS Mishra, who was present there, tried to refute this claim. Yadav, annoyed with this, scolded the officer, and asked him to leave the place immediately.

Later, ANI reported quoting Mishra that the medical officer was present there because he was treating patients. “One of the patients said he didn't get the compensation cheque. I tried to clarify that the cheque was given. At this, former CM Akhilesh ji got angry and asked me to leave the room,” said Dr Mishra.

Thus, it can be concluded that the viral claim saying Akhilesh Yadabv scolded a doctor in Kannauj hospital because he was Brahmin is false.