Dr Anthony Fauci, America’s top physician, immunologist and chief medical advisor to the US president, is facing heat for several of his decisions regarding citizen’s health and safety during the pandemic. But has he been sacked from his position?

Multiple Facebook users have claimed that Dr Fauci has lost his job and the US government has accepted that Covid-19 is a man-made virus. The Facebook users have posted a video where a woman is talking about ‘Fire Fauci Act’.

advertisement

The caption of the Facebook post reads, “Dr Fauci sacked. US admits virus is man-made. Dr Fauci becomes the first wicket to fall in USA administration. Though slightly late.”

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) has found that Dr Fauci is still the chief medical advisor. Recently, Republican Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene introduced the ‘Fire Fauci Act’ (Bill) in the House of Representatives. It is yet to be passed. Also, the US government has not made any statements about coronavirus being man-made.

The archived versions of the viral posts saved here and here.

What is the ‘Fire Fauci Act’?

We have found the entire press conference of the Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene on the Facebook page of Fox News channel that went live on June 15. The caption of the post reads, “Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene and other lawmakers hold a press conference to discuss removing Dr Anthony Fauci as head of the NIAID.”

Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene along with a handful of lawmakers announced the ‘Fire Fauci Act (Bill)’ which would reduce Dr Fauci’s salary to zero and it would require someone to fill up his position.

Dr Anthony Fauci has remained a trusted adviser to former President Donald Trump and now to President Joe Biden. The face of America's fight against the pandemic has now come heavily under fire from the hardline right-wing after the release of some controversial emails of Dr Fauci. However, Dr Fauci has recently refuted these criticisms.

The ‘Fire Fauci Act (Bill)’ which has been introduced in the House of Representatives says, Dr Anthony Fauci has continually failed to provide Americans with accurate information about the Covid-19 pandemic and has shown distrust in the American private sector and American ingenuity. The Bill has not passed yet. Dr Fauci still holds the post

In a June 4 briefing in the White House, US President Joe Biden replied he is "very confident" in Dr Fauci when he was asked, “do you still have confidence in Dr Fauci?”

As per the website of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Dr Fauci still heads the institute as the Director.

Did US say Covid-19 is a man-made virus?

US President Joe Biden on May 26, briefed the media in the White House and said that he had asked the Intelligence Community to redouble their efforts to investigate and analyse the origins of Covid-19, including whether it emerged from human contact with an infected animal or from a laboratory accident.

Biden has set a deadline of 90 days for this report. He informed that the earlier intelligence report was inconclusive. So, the US has not yet admitted that Covid-19 was a man-made virus.