Spread the truth:

The image of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Chairman and Managing Director of Reliance Industries Mukesh Ambani is viral claiming that the industrialist has assured full support to the CM for 2022 elections. However, we found that the image is photoshopped.

The tweet says, “पहली बात ऐ के राम मंदिर का बनना लगभग नामुमकिन है क्यों के उस जमीन के नीचे रेत बालू है..! दूसरी बात ये की अगर कभी बन भी गई तो वो मंदिर कम अम्बानी का होटल जायद होगा माफी चाहता हूँ पर वो सिर्फ एक कमाई का जरिया होगा पूंजीपतियों के लिए..! ये तसवीर यही दर्शाती है…”

English Translation: “First point is that it’s almost impossible to build a Ram Temple as theere is sand underneath that place. Secondly, even if’ts built, it would be less of a temple and more of an Ambani Hotel. Sorry, but it would merely be an earning source for millionaires. This images shows.”

Twitter

पहली बात ऐ के राम मंदिर का बनना लगभग नामुमकिन है क्यों के उस जमीन के नीचे रेत बालू है..! दूसरी बात ये की अगर कभी बन भी गई तो वो मंदिर कम अम्बानी का होटल जायद होगा माफी चाहता हूँ पर वो सिर्फ एक कमाई का जरिया होगा पूंजीपतियों के लिए..! ये तसवीर यही दर्शाती है…. pic.twitter.com/a5WYQYbhTu — Armanपठान🇮🇳🇵🇸 (@Armankh09652552) July 7, 2021

The archive of the tweet

Modi Ravan Raj:- ❗Migrant Narrative – Failed

❗GST Narrative – Failed

❗Anti PM-Cares – Failed

❗Central Vista Agenda – Failed

❗Vaccine Narrative – Failed Now back to same Narrative = Jobs, GDP, Inflation and farmers' protest ..#YogiHataoUPBachao pic.twitter.com/2wsaCHHOYU — Er.Ilyas Mir Magami (@Magamiilyas) July 7, 2021

The archive of the tweet.

Truth

The viral image is digitally altered.

The image is photoshopped by combining two different images.

By doing a reverse image search, we didn’t receive any results. We cropped the image of Yogi Adityanath and the result received was the image from 2018. Yogi Adityanath was greeting the former King of Nepal Gyanendra Veer Vikram Shah with the Kumbh frame.

आज लखनऊ स्थित सरकारी आवास पर नेपाल के पूर्व नरेश श्री ज्ञानेंद्र वीर विक्रम शाह जी ने भेंट की, उन्हें अंग वस्त्र व कुम्भ का लोगो भेंट किया। pic.twitter.com/v8KPCMpatB — Yogi Adityanath (@myogiadityanath) January 8, 2018

Archive

The image was cropped and flipped. Generally, the pocket on the Kurta is on the left, while the photo contains on the right side. The expression matches the same post.

Whereas, the photo of Mukesh Ambani is also taken from the convocation attended by him at Pandit Deendayal Electronic University (PDEU) in 2016. The article was published in Desh Gujarat.

The image is cropped and flipped. A viral image denotes that the image is flipped by his hairstyle.

The frame of Ayodhya Mandir is available on Amazon, Indiamart etc.

Related