A video of some people protesting in front of Smriti Irani’s convoy is viral on social media with the claim that this was how the Union minister was welcomed in Uttar Pradesh in the run-up to elections.

Several Facebook users have shared the video showing police shoving back protesters and trying to clear the way for Irani’s convoy. One such caption in Hindi translates to, “Had Hindus not been disappointed, you wouldn’t have had to see this day. What a welcome for Smriti Irani in Uttar Pradesh! This calls for a brainstorming as to why such things are happening with BJP leaders.”

advertisement

It is to be noted that a few days ago, a BJP MLA from UP’s Muzaffarnagar was chased away by people in his own constituency. This news report can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is from 2020. A group of Congress workers had blocked Irani’s cavalcade in Varanasi in protest against the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras, UP.

The archived versions of the viral posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Using InVID tool and reverse image search, we found that the same video was uploaded on a YouTube channel called “NYOOOZ TV” on October 3, 2020. The title of the video reads, “Congress raises Smriti Irani Murdabad slogans, stop her convoy in protest against Hathras case”. As per this YouTube channel, the incident took place in Varanasi.

The same video was published by news portal “Navbharat Times” as well on October 3, 2020.

This incident was also covered by other mainstream news portals on the same day with similar pictures.

As per these reports, Irani was in Varanasi to hold a meeting with farmers. Congress workers, protesting against the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras, blocked the Union minister’s cavalcade and showed her placards. Police drove away the protesters to pave way for the convoy.

Hence, it is clear that amid high-pitch campaigning for the upcoming elections in UP, an old video of Irani is being circulated with misleading claims.

Read | Fact Check: Old video of intra-party rivalry shared as public thrashing BJP netas during campaign

Read | Fact Check: This speech of PM Modi taking a dig at corruption and Congress is five years old