Did American daily 'The Washington Post' really publish a cartoon making fun of Congress president Rahul Gandhi? A Twitter user recently posted the cartoon that is widely being circulated on other social media platforms as well.

Twitter user 'RenukaJain Chowkidar', who claims to be a financial and tax adviser, uploaded an illustration or a cartoon tagging Rahul with the claim, "Pappu is famous world wise (sic). Congratulations @RahulGandhi. Cartoon in Washington post."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false and the original illustration has been photoshopped to make fun of Rahul Gandhi.

At the time of filing this story, the post, which was uploaded on May 6, was liked by more than 590 Twitter users and retweeted 270 times. Several Twitter users have commented and poked fun at Rahul Gandhi. An archived version of the post can be seen here.

Among others, PM Modi follows 'RenukaJain Chowkidar' on Twitter.

This illustration has been shared on Facebook too with the same claim which can be seen here and also here.

AFWA did a reverse search of this illustration and found it was actually made by Brooklyn-based illustrator Maritsa Patrinos. Her LinkedIn profile states she has worked with various organisations but her profile does not mention 'The Washington Post' at any point. After searching some more, we saw Patrinos worked extensively for BuzzFeed and on her own website.

The artist mentions that this particular illustration is part of the BuzzFeed comics. AFWA has tried to contact the illustrator and awaits her response. The article will be updated accordingly.

This original illustration was also turned into various memes, something the artist herself has spoken about here.

However, the specific illustration uploaded by 'RenukaJain Chowkidar' could not be found on the website or Patrinos's social media page, clearly indicating that it was photoshopped.

Rahul has lately been sporting a beard and that can be seen in the sketch. The speech bubbles in the viral post too have been changed and the crossword-like mosaic has been added for effect.

AFWA also scanned some of the illustrations in 'The Washington Post' but could not find this viral cartoon.