A graphic video, in which a woman atop a water tank accidentally catches fire while trying to enact self-immolation during a protest, is being widely shared on social media after giving it a communal colour and falsely linking it to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).

The 1-minute-12-second long video is visually disturbing as it shows a woman engulfed in flames, running down the stairs of the water tank, even as some people try to douse the fire and save her. A dramatic voice-over with sound effects of wind blowing has been overlaid on the video, in which a man claims in Urdu that "during an RSS function, some women tried to burn a burkha to protest. The ire of Ilahi struck her and the women caught fire. But no media is showing it. You are requested to share it as much as possible."

advertisement

A text message along with the video says "Naqab jalane wali RSS ki aurton per kahar e ilahi".

The video has gone viral on the social media and has been shared more than 25,000 times on several Facebook pages.

A Facebook user by the name Zain Khan posted this video on October 29, and that alone received about 20,000 shares and over 3 lakh views. Zain Khan's page is filled with passionate religious speeches, including a post praising the radical leader Zakir Naik.

The video was also shared by Facebook page 'Yaha Sab Kuch Milta Hai' and 'The Owesi Fan Club', which are getting thousands of hits.

The India Today Fact Check team found that the video was misleading and has nothing to do with the RSS. It is a video of some teachers protesting in Punjab's Kapurthala to press for their demands.

The incident is over eight years old and occurred on February 8, 2010. The teacher, Kiranjeet Kaur, in the video was admitted to the hospital with severe burns and later succumbed to her injuries.

Scanning through the comments of Facebook users below the video, we came across a user who has correctly pointed out that this is a not what it is made out to be. On the page 'The Owesi Fan Club', a user Sameer Sandhu made it clear that it is a video of a teachers' protest from Punjab by citing a report on NDTV of the incident.

We looked up the incident of Punjab teachers' protest and came across more news reports from 2010 of the same on The Indian Express and Zee News.

According to the report on NDTV, the EGS teachers, who teach students up to Class 8 under a scheme of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) in rural areas of Punjab, were seeking admission to the elementary teachers training (ETT) course for 370 EGS teachers and also regularisation of their services.



As hundreds of other teachers gathered below the water tank to join the protest, Kiranjeet Kaur poured petrol on herself and set herself on fire. This led to complete chaos and even police officials present there could do little to save the teacher.

advertisement

Hence, it can be said that the video of an unfortunate incident has been given a communal angle to spread hatred and gather hits on social media.

READ | Fact Check: AAP goofs up Delhi's Signature Bridge with photo of Netherlands' Erasmus Bridge

ALSO READ | Fact Check: DD staffer from viral Naxal attack video is not dead

ALSO WATCH | DD staffer records emotional video as Naxals attack him