A post is viral on social media with the claim that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has announced that recruitment for 52,000 posts in UP Police dept will begin in September. The post is a purported screenshot from news channel TV9 Bharatvarsh telecast, which also says there will be an age relaxation of two years for the candidates.

The text in Hindi on the alleged screenshot translates as “UP Police Recruitment 2021 Application process starts from the second week of September for 52000 posts: CM Yogi! Big decision came from the meeting. Age relaxation of two years. The wait is over”.

advertisement

One such post can be seen below.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. TV9 Bharatvarsh has not broadcast any such report and the viral screenshot is fake. Uttar Pradesh Police Recruitment Board (UPPRPB) also confirmed to us that no such vacancies have been announced in the state.

AFWA probe

A close look at the TV9 Bharatvarsh screenshot in question shows multiple discrepancies in the alignment and font of the text. When AFWA reached out, a representative from the channel confirmed to us that the screenshot is fake and TV9 Bharatvarsh has not published any such news report.

Also, we couldn't find any credible reports on a recent statement made by CM Yogi as claimed in the viral post. No such notification regarding recruitment for 52,000 posts is also available on the website of UPPRPB.

Meanwhile, we found a LiveHindustan report from September 2019. According to this report, the chief minister had said that 51,000 people will be recruited in UP Police dept in 2019 during the inauguration of the Police Training School at Kalpi in Jalaun district of UP.

Speaking to AFWA, Superintendent of Police Sureshwar at the recruitment board of UPPRPB said, “The claim regarding the recruitment to 52,000 posts from September is false. No such recruitment has been announced. Also, we have already recruited around 49,600 constables to the UP police recently.”

In 2018, UPPRPB had issued a notification for the recruitment of Police Constables with Uttar Pradesh Civil Police and Reserve PAC against 49,568 vacancies. The final merit list of candidates selected for the post came in March 2020.

According to reports, DG, Recruitment Board, RK Vishwakarma was recently quoted saying that the Uttar Pradesh government has approved a total of 2,244 vacant posts of radio branch.

Vishwakarma clarified to AFWA that the board has not received any order for the recruitment of 52,000 new posts as claimed in the viral post.

Speaking to AFWA, ADG Sanjay Singhal said that there are two main direct recruitments currently in process under UPPRPB, but the application process is now shut. This includes 1329 SI and ASI posts, in the Police Department and another for 9534 posts of Sub Inspector Civil Police and Platoon Commander, PAC and Fire II Officer.

advertisement

Hence, it is clear that the viral screenshot is morphed, and the UP CM has not made any recent announcement regarding the recruitment of 52,000 new posts to UP police from September 2021.

( With inputs from Sonali Khatta)