Gujarat will go to polls next year in what promises to be a tri-cornered contest unlike in the past. New entrant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) performed well in the recent local body elections and promised to put up a tough fight against the Congress and BJP.

Now, an image of an AAP banner in Gujarati is circulating on social media where it says, “Now Gujarat will read namaaz”. The text on the said banner asks people to discard Hindu religious activities such as Bhagwat recital and Satyanarayan puja. The banner carries the pictures of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and two other people.

advertisement

Several Facebook users have shared the image, accusing AAP of communalising Gujarat politics with such billboards and banners.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral picture is morphed. The original poster says, “Now Gujarat will change”. There is no mention of namaaz or Hindu rituals on the original poster.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here and here.

AFWA investigation

Using keyword and reverse image search, we found similar banners and billboards on several Twitter handles of AAP from Gujarat.

Comparing one of these AAP banners with the viral picture, we found how the original banner has been distorted in the viral image.

In place of “Now Gujarat will change”, “Now Gujarat will read namaaz” has been inserted in the viral image.

The sentence “Stop following Bhagwat week and Satyanarayan Katha" has been added in the empty portion of the banner.

The photo of Gujarat AAP president Gopal Italia beside Kejriwal has been morphed and a beard added. The other person in the banner is Isudan Gadhvi.

Original AAP banner

Viral picture

The Gujarat unit of AAP also tweeted about the morphed banner, saying, “We want that the politics of Gujarat shift from Hindu-Muslim, caste-religion, India-Pakistan to government education, health, employment, hospital, electricity and other facilities !!”

With an eye on 2022, AAP has been conducting a number of political activities in Gujarat. These banners too are part of its public outreach campaign. One such banner has been morphed and circulated on social media.