A video — showing a bunch of people driving over the Indian national flag and waving a Pakistan flag — is being widely shared on social media, claiming that these are the visuals from Tamil Nadu.

The video is shared on Facebook with a Hindi caption: “इस विडियो को देखें और इसे जितना हो सके उतना फॉरवर्ड करें …. अगर आप यू आज चुप रहते हैं तो हमें नुकसान होगा … क्योंकि 6 महीने के बाद इसे आगे बढ़ाने का कोई फायदा नहीं होगा … उँगलियाँ घुमाएँ और इसे आगे बढ़ाएँ अभी – तांजोर, तमिलनाडु” (English translation: Watch this video and forward it as much as possible… If you remain silent today, we will lose… Because after six months it won’t be worth pushing… Fingers crossed and forward it now – Tanjore, Tamil Nadu)

Here’s the link to the above post.

The video is being widely shared on Facebook with similar claims.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim and found it to be MISLEADING.

As stated earlier, numerous people can be seen holding the Pakistani flag in the viral video. We saw a white vehicle with the words “The Hunar Foundation” printed on it about three minutes and 38 seconds into the video.

The Hunar Foundation is a Karachi-based organisation that focuses on delivering technical training in Pakistan, according to its website.

At the beginning of the video, we spotted a store sign with the word “Sanam” written on it. When we looked for Sanam businesses in Karachi, we found a “Sanam Boutique” with the same typeface and style as the one in the video. The store, according to this website, is located on Karachi’s Tariq Road.

We identified the Sanam Boutique featuring in a YouTube video of Tariq Road in Karachi in 2017.

Searching further, we found that identical videos and screengrabs from it have been circulating on the Internet since March 2020.

Though we were not able to ascertain the exact time and location of the viral video, it is evident from the above information that the viral video is old and not from Tamil Nadu but from Karachi, Pakistan.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news