A set of pictures of an injured priest, seen bleeding from the face and head, is going viral on social media. It is being claimed that a priest of Imlitala temple in Vrindavan, Uttar Pradesh, was brutally assaulted by some goons, including Bangladeshis. Many social media users have accused police of trying to hush up the matter.

The claim along with the pictures reads, “Brutal assault on Vrindavan priest: Tamal Krishna Das, an elderly Vaishnav saint & one of the main priests of Imlitala Temple in Vrindavan, UP, mercilessly thrashed by goons. Two of the assailants are told to be Bangladeshis, while others are outsiders. All the attackers are absconding. Mathura Police trying to hush up the case. People are requested to share this as widely as possible.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the viral post to be misleading. According to police, the attack on the priest was a result of an internal dispute at Gaudiya mutt in Vrindavan’s Imlitala area and there was no communal angle in the incident.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. This post is quite viral on Facebook and Twitter.

AFWA investigation

Reverse-searching one of the photos, we came across a tweet by “Sudarshan News” journalist Ankit Triwedi, who had also posted the images along with the viral claim. He later took down the post after a response from Mathura Police, who denied any communal angle to the incident or the claim that Bangladeshis were among the attackers.

In the tweet, Mathura police posted a video bite of an inspector who said that the injured priest has been identified as Tamal Krishna Das. His injuries were a result of a fight that broke out between him and supporters of incumbent temple trust chairman BP Sadhu inside the Gaudiya mutt complex in Vrindavan’s Imlitala area on May 11. Das is a former chairman of the temple trust.

AFWA contacted Ramesh Tiwari, DSP, Co Sadar, Mathura, who told us that the reason of the dispute was unlocking a room in the mutt. Das had locked some rooms of the complex. When the guard came to open the door on May 11, Das stopped him, after which Sadhu’s followers roughed him up.

The prime accused Sachinanand was taken for interrogation by police whereas two others, Govinda and Jagannath, are absconding. Sadhu was not in town when the clash broke out. No FIR was lodged by Das till the filing of this story. Mathura police also tweeted from its official Twitter handle rubbishing the viral claim.

Hence, it is clear that Tamal Krishna Das, a priest at a temple in Vrindavan’s Imlitala, was beaten up by another group of priests of the same mutt over some internal dispute. There is no communal angle to the incident.