India Today Fact Check has busted yet another social media hoax; this time a video that sought to fuel ethnic tensions in Assam.

The northeastern state is no stranger to protests over illegal immigration of Bangladeshi Muslims.

A video of a protest that circulated on Facebook this month sought to turn the communities against one another with its sensational Hindi captions.

advertisement

"Ab Assam mein Bangaldeshi Muslims ne alag Muslim desh banane ki maang ki," read Monday's post with the cell-phone footage showing a large group of Muslims in skull caps marching.

Screenshot of post that went viral

The video was posted by a user identifying himself as Satish Dwivedi. On his Facebook page, Dwivedi declares himself a "Desh Sewak".

But when India Today Fact Check team examined the video, the truth appeared far from serving any national interest.

In three days, the footage that claimed Bangladeshi Muslims in Assam rallied for a separate homeland has garnered almost 50,000 views and has been shared by over 2,500 users.

<br>

Its narrative in Hindi was mischievously designed to create a stir among audiences in the Hindi heartland, the Viral Test team found. If racist expletives generated in the comments were an indication, then it clearly justified its motive.

"They have forgotten that there is a BJP government in the state," read the description in Hindi.

India Today's Viral Test team first investigated the audio of the clip.

"Haraxasti noslibo," Muslim demonstrators, carrying banners, could be heard shouting. When translated, it means "harassment will not be tolerated".

India Today's Viral Test team reached out to a high-ranking police officer in Assam to inquire about the protests shown in the viral Facebook video.

Additional DGP Harmeet Singh confirmed that the footage originated from the states Goalpara district.

So we got in touch with Goalpara's SP, Amitava Sinha, who shared all the details about the demonstration.

"This incident," he told India Today's Viral Test team, "occurred on June 30, 2017."

Yes. SP Sinha confirmed the protests that FB user Satish Dwivedi put up online this Monday had in fact taken place last year.

But what were the Muslims in the footage protesting against?

"About 150 people were protesting, claiming that they were being harassed in the name of identifying illegal migrants. Soon they started pelting the police with stones," Sinha recalled.

An FIR 257/2017 was also filed in this regard, he said.

An internet search revealed the 2017 Goalpara protests were reported widely then. The Viral Test investigation has sorted fact from fiction.