Amid tensions between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), a picture showing dozens of tricolour-draped coffins has gone viral on social media with the claim that Chinese troops killed 75 Indian jawans in Ladakh.

Facebook user "SaLman Hameed" posted the picture on May 25 with the caption, “75 indian troops reached hell,a silent messege from China in ladakh. Raam raam satty ha”.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the picture to be false. The coffins are of CRPF personnel who lost their lives in the Pulwama terror attack in February last year.

Using reverse image search, AFWA found that the picture was taken on February 15, 2019 a day after the attack during the wreath-laying ceremony at the CRPF camp in Budgam, Jammu and Kashmir. The suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama had led to the death of 40 jawans.

The post by "SaLman Hameed" was shared more than 1,400 times till the filing of this story. The archived version can be seen here.

Tensions between India and China

There have been frequent face-offs between Indian and Chinese troops at multiple locations along LAC in Ladakh. Both countries have increased troop presence in the area. But as of now, there is no such news that China killed 75 Indian troops. Had it been the case, it would have been the most prominent news in the media.

A few days before, it was reported that some Indian jawans were detained by Chinese forces near Pangong Lake in Ladakh. The Indian Army had categorically denied the incident.

Some reports say Chinese troops used sticks, clubs with barbed wires and stones to target Indian forces during a recent stand-off in Eastern Ladakh. But despite being outnumbered, Indian troops retaliated in equal measure, reports say.

India Today had reported that tension between the two countries was triggered after India started road construction north of Pangong Lake, well within Indian territory and far from Chinese claim.

But the viral claim that Chinese troops killed 75 Indian forces in Ladakh is absolutely false.