Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan will inaugurate the Kartarpur corridor on November 9, three days before the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. The event, however, has been marred by controversies.

Amid this, a collage of two images of a structure with a Pakistan flag painted on the rooftop is being circulated on social media. It is being claimed that Pakistan has painted its flag on the rooftop of Kartarpur gurudwara instead of the khanda flag (a Sikh flag usually seen in every gurudwara).

advertisement

Here's the post.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the structure with a Pakistan flag painted on the rooftop is not Kartarpur gurudwara but an immigration centre.



Facebook user 'Diwakar DP' shared a screenshot of a tweet with the text: "Look at this - Pakistan puts their flags on the rooftop of Kartarpur Gurudwara, instead of khanda flag. Where are the so-called Khalistani now - Did they all become cowards? Or are Sikhs scared & converting to Islam?"

The archived version of the post can be seen here. The post is viral on Twitter as well.

AFWA probe

To verify the claim, we ran a reverse search on the viral image and found that it is not the Gurudwara Darbar Sahib Kartarpur. We also found a news article published in Pakistani website The Express Tribune’ that has the viral image.

As per the article, this is the image of an immigration centre. A 150-feet-high Pakistani flag has been hoisted near the immigration centre. The building is painted in white and the finishing has been done in gold.

Recently, Imran Khan had tweeted images of Kartarpur gurudwara.





One can clearly see that there is no similarity between the gurudwara building and the structure in the viral image. The top view of the gurudwara can also be seen in Google maps.

A khanda flag has also been hoisted in the gurudwara premises as confirmed by the latest images on Google maps.



The construction of Kartarpur corridor and renovation of Gurudwara Darbar Sahib Kartarpur, the world’s largest Sikh shrine, has been completed. India and Pakistan had signed the agreement last week on Kartarpur corridor.

media reports, this will allow 5,000 Indian pilgrims every day to undertake a visa-free visit to Kartarpur gurudwara where Guru Nanak spent the last 18 years of his life. The corridor will connect the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in India’s Punjab with Darbar Sahib at Kartarpur, just 4.5 km from the International Border. As perthis will allow 5,000 Indian pilgrims every day to undertake a visa-free visit to Kartarpur gurudwara where Guru Nanak spent the last 18 years of his life. The corridor will connect the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in India’s Punjab with Darbar Sahib at Kartarpur, just 4.5 km from the International Border.

ALSO READ | India raises concerns over Pakistan's controversial Kartarpur Corridor video