A picture of a woman with a shaved head is circulating on social media with the claim she is renowned Instagram blogger Kyrzayda Rodriguez who died after a 10-month battle with cancer. The picture is shared with words, claimed to be Kyrzayda's last message to the world.

The caption along with the picture reads, "Kyrzayda Rodriguez, a popular Instagram blogger from the Dominican Republic, has died after a 10-month battle with stomach cancer. The 40-year-old blogger was diagnosed with stage four cancer in November last year The mother of one, who had nearly half-a-million followers on Instagram, in her last post, encouraged her followers telling them that the most important thing in life is love"

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the woman in the viral post is not Kyrzayda, but one Nicole Schweppe, who was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2017. Kyrzayda had succumbed to cancer in 2018.

The archived versions of similar claims can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Kyrzayda was quite active on social media even on her final days. She was also open about her 10 month-long battle with cancer.

With a keyword search on the Internet, we were able to confirm that the woman in the viral post is not Kyrzayda. Checking her pictures on her Facebook and Instagram handles, we found that the woman whose picture is being circulated is not Kyrzayda.

We also searched on the claim regarding Kyrzayda's final post.

Though we could not find the exact words on her official social media handles, we did come across an emotional video of Kyrzayda shared by netizens in 2018 as the words on her last days.

In the video, Kyrzayda can be heard saying, "I have a brand new car that can't do anything for me, I have a mansion home that can't do anything for me. I can take a plane any day of the week if I like, but that can't do anything for me So do not let anyone make you feel bad for the things you don't have - but the things you have, be happy with those Lastly, make sure you enjoy the ones you love."

WATCH VIDEO HERE

We found several articles quoting Kyrzayda's last words.

Woman in viral image

Using reverse image search, we were able to identify the woman in the viral image as Nicole Schweppe, a blogger and graphic designer from the United States.

We found the same image in a 2017 blog by Nicole titled, "My Breast Cancer Journey, Part 2 - How I Prepared for Chemotherapy".

Nicole, a mother of two, was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2017, and in this blog, she writes about how she prepared for chemotherapy.

Hence, it is clear that the viral image is not of late fashion blogger Kyrzayda, but of another woman who was diagnosed with cancer in 2017.