Spread the truth:

A masked picture of Rahul Gandhi who is a member of parliament from the Indian national congress party is getting viral on several social media platforms with the following text :

“मास्क लगा कर खाना खाने वाला पहला आदमी”

Translation: “The first man to eat with a mask on”

Claim: The viral picture is of Rahul Gandhi who is a member of parliament from the Indian national congress party and the text claims that he is the first man who is eating food with his mask on his mouth.

Twitter



The viral picture was shared by the verified Twitter handle of Haryana BJP in-charge Arun Yadav.

The viral picture was shared by the verified Twitter handle of a BJP worker Hrash Tiwari.

The viral picture was shared by the verified Twitter handle of Vice President of Madhya Pradesh BJP in-charge Jitu Jirati.

Facebook



We found out the viral picture shared by several Facebook users with the text claim.

Truth

No the claims made on the viral picture of Rahul Gandhi are not true. The photo was taken before he started eating.

Well, obviously no one can at with mask on but what we believe in the viral message is that he didn’t eat with others and sat there just for the photograph.

With the help of google reverse image search, we found out the original video from which these viral pictures are edited. In the following video, you can see at around 18 seconds that he took down his mask and started eating.

We found a video on the official YouTube channel of Puthiyathalaimurai TV which is a Tamil Nadu-based news channel. This video was uploaded on 24 January 2021 when Rahul Gandhi visited Erode and met people from the Weaver community and had lunch with them during his visit.

Now if we look closely in the video at 23 seconds in the video after getting his pictures clicked with the women on his table Rahul Gandhi removes his mask and starts eating his lunch.

We also found out that in a media article by The Hindu he is again seen having lunch without his mask on his face.

Hence in our investigation, it was found that the claims made on the viral picture were found to be false, and moreover if we use critical thinking then also clear that no one eats with his mask on his mouth.

Related