Spread the truth:

A photo of many climbing on and surrounding a tanker for water is viral.

BJP MP Vijay Goel on 19 June, tweeted a photo along with the caption

“दिल्ली में पानी का हॉल

कुछ करो भैया केजरीवाल”

Translation – “The condition of water crisis in Delhi, do something Mr. Kejriwal”

Twitter

Harsh Sanghvi BJP MLA, Surat tweeted the same photo asking “Which state’s condition is this?”

He further retweeted similar post from Nikhil Patel, Convener IT Gujarat State – BJP. The post said “This is the state of people in Delhi for water, do you people still want Kejriwal in Gujarat?”

Facebook

Similarly, Virendra Babbar, spokesperson BJP, Delhi posted the same on his Facebook page

Truth

While their is an ongoing water issue in Delhi but the image used by BJP leaders is 12 years old i.e. before AAP formed.

There is indeed a water crisis in Sangam Vihar area of Delhi, reported as of 20 June, but the image attached by Vijay Goel is fake.

Delhi: Locals of Sangam Vihar say they're facing water scarcity "We're facing water scarcity for the last 3 years," says a resident.

"We're dependent on water tankers only, there is no water supply without tankers," says another resident pic.twitter.com/ywj4NTM1w0 — ANI (@ANI) June 20, 2021

Soon after the tweet of Mr. Vijay Goel, a series of tweet including one from the AAP’s official twitter handle and Delhi Jal Board stated that the revived photo is of 2009 water crisis in Delhi.

Vijay Goel Ji, Are you nostalgic that you're sharing photos from 2009, or was it a deliberate attempt to defame Kejriwal Govt? pic.twitter.com/KoOQASHQRp — Aam Aadmi Party Delhi (@AAPDelhi) June 19, 2021

⚠️Fake News ⚠️ The image posted is from the year 2009. Entire DJB team has worked very hard even during the raging pandemic. Link to the original image clicked on June 30 2009 :- https://t.co/jkzoW52ZTH — Delhi Jal Board (@DelhiJalBoard) June 20, 2021

The reverse image search performed to check the validity of the claims made showed that the image was actually taken in 2009. Sheila Dixit from the Indian National Congress was the Chief Minister back then and this photo is of the water crisis in 2009 in Delhi. Attached below is the original photo

Source

Raghav Chadha, Vice Chairman of Delhi Jal Board, MLA, AAP tweeted clarifying the fake image

Entire DJB is working tirelessly to service Delhiites, through the pandemic. Commitment displayed by our engineers has been extraordinary. Instead of applauding, BJP is running a malicious campaign against them. Image tweeted below is 12 years old.

Link – https://t.co/NrGXIYfPqb https://t.co/z0DQgm9A57 — Raghav Chadha (@raghav_chadha) June 20, 2021

This 2010 riversphere.blogspot.com article talks about water crisis in urban areas of India which contains the same image.

http://riversphere.blogspot.com/2010/03/

Related