A video of a man licking his fingers while sealing bread packets has gone viral on Facebook and Twitter with communal undertones during the Covid-19 pandemic. The video is circulating on social media with the hashtag "SpitJihad" and several people have claimed this to be from India.

The message on Facebook and Twitter reads, "#SpitJihad Dear Indians, Pls sanitize the outer covers of the bread you buy , bcoz we don't know which one has spit of disgusting x'hadis".

advertisement #SpitJihad

Dear Indians,

Pls sanitize the outer covers of the bread you buy , bcoz we don't know which one has spit of disgusting x'hadis@narendramodi @AmitShah pic.twitter.com/pCko9IeKAU— Ritu () #EqualRightsForHindus (@RituRathaur) April 6, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is neither from India, nor does it have any link to coronavirus. The video is from Philippines and was taken in September last year.

The archived versions of the video can be seen here.

Several users have shared the video multiple times on Facebook and Twitter believing it to be from India.

With help of InVID and reverse image search, we found the viral video in several news reports published in different Philippines-based websites. "Philippine News" covered the incident in an article dated September 20, 2019, with the headline, "Delivery Personnel Caught on Camera While Tampering Bread Products".

"ABS-CBN News" also reported a similar incident last year. It said a delivery boy of "Gardenia Philippines" was caught on camera tampering with bread packets.

The Philippines-based bakery company clarified the matter on its Facebook page on September 20, 2019.

A portion of the clarification reads, "Unfortunately, in this isolated case, the delivery man took out bread slices from pulled out loaves for his personal use. This is a violation of company rules and procedures. The personnel involved is now undergoing the administrative due process."

Therefore, we can say that the viral video of the man putting his spit on bread packets is not from India and has no relation to coronavirus.