During elections, social media gets flooded with political posts. Videos are going viral with claims which many times are found to be false. A video clip is going viral both in Bengali and English on Facebook, with the claim that a TMC candidate from Uluberia of Howrah district, Sajda Ahmad, is threatening people that "Hari naam" and "Ram naam" and "Marxism" will not be allowed in West Bengal and Rohingyas will be given shelter in West Bengal".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this to be a false claim. The woman in the video is not a TMC candidate. The video clip is part of a street play.

Facebook user "Debesh Mazumdar" posted a 2.39-minute-long video on Friday, which shows a woman talking purportedly to a TV journalist. A man in a police uniform is standing behind her.

She is surrounded by a group of men and women. The language of the conversation is in Bengali.

The woman can be heard saying that she will let the Rohingyas settle in West Bengal and will give them all the facilities. She warns that people will not be allowed to take "Hari naam", "Ram Naam" and "Marxism" in West Bengal.

At one point, she also threatened a reporter that she will get his "license" cancelled for asking awkward questions. The woman also mentions "Allah" several times during the conversation.

The caption in the post reads: "TMC candidate of Ulluberia Sajda Ahmed announces that 'Hari naam' and 'Ram naam' and 'Marxism' will not be allowed in West Bengal and Rohingyas will be given shelter in the state."





This post was shared in the Bengali language by Facebook page "United Hindu Concern" yesterday. This post is shared by 2,800 people till the time of writing this article.

Many other users have also shared the same post on Facebook.

We found that this is an old post which was circulated last year with a little different claim. The old claim was that the sari-clad woman was TMC MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar. Facebook page " True News" called it a fake news and wrote that "Beware! BJP/RSS is spreading a fake video of a street play to stir up communal tension."

By observing the video minutely, one can figure out that the characters are overacting their roles.

The man in police uniform standing behind the woman can be seen nodding his head quite often and making gestures which are too dramatic for a real cop.

At some point, another woman is seen directing other actors to remain calm and take their due positions.

advertisement

We found a longer version of the same video on YouTube posted by one "Sri Rathin Sanatan" on May 6, 2018.

At the end of this video the TV journalist acting as a real one called the main protagonist (the sari-clad woman) as the Chief Minister of West Bengal. It is needless to say that Chief Minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee is not present in the video.

Comparing the photographs of TMC MPs Sajda Ahmad and Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar with the woman in the video, we can surely say the claim is totally false.

Picture of Sajda Ahmad, TMC candidate from Uluberia

Picture of Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, TMC candidate from Barasat

Screenshot of the woman in the viral video

The viral video has no relation with any TMC candidate, but several newspaper reports suggest that TMC leader Mamata Banerjee has been lenient on Rohingya refugees. Fact Check website "Boom Bangla" has also debunked this false claim.