As soon as news of Prince of Wales Charles having contacted coronavirus hit the headlines, netizens started taking a dig at Kanika Kapoor for having infected him.

The Bollywood singer had tested positive for Covid-19 after returning from the United Kingdom on March 9. And now, social media users are sharing her photos with Prince Charles to establish the claim.

Facebook user "Damayanti Bhattacharya" posted a collage of two pictures of Kanika with Prince Charles with the caption, "Kanika Kapoor spreading love and care all around the world. With HRH Prince Charles here who was diagnosed with Covid19 today".

advertisement

Here, Kanika can be seen wearing an orange dress. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Similarly, sharing another picture of the singer in a shimmery silver dress and with Prince Charles and Duchess of Cornwall, some Twitter users have made the same claim.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the pictures being shared are actually from 2015 and 2018.

It is not clear if she met the Prince during her recent visit to the UK.

Kanika at present is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Lucknow. No one answered her phone when we called. So far, we haven't got any reply to the message that we sent her. We will update the story if we get a response.

Facebook post

Many news reports (https://bit.ly/2wBTeee) on the internet point to the photo being from 2015.

According to these reports, Kanika was to perform at the fundraiser Elephant Family charity function organised by the Royalty. It was in this event that Kanika had met Prince Charles and exchanged a few words.

Twitter user's tweet

The reverse search tool helped us find some news reports from 2018. Kanika had tweeted the photo herself as well after performing at the Buckingham Palace, in the presence of Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall. She was invited to the palace for a grand gala organised by the royal family to mark the 10th anniversary of the British Asian Trust.

Both singer and Prince hospitalised

Kanika was hospitalised last week and she was found to have attended a few high-profile parties as well.

After she was hospitalised, many political leaders who had attended the parties had to be sent to isolation too.

The Prince was hospitalised on Tuesday night and is said to be stable.