A disturbing video of a man, woman and two children lying dead inside a car is circulating on social media with the claim that they were shot dead by the Taliban just because the woman was driving the vehicle. Sharing the video, many even took a dig at Muslims for “feeling scared” in India.

The caption in Hindi along with the video translates to, “The Taliban shot dead a woman and her little child just because she was driving a car. And here in India, Muslims are feeling unsafe. Jihadis rioting and spreading terror in India should see that those who shot these innocents are your Muslim brothers only.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the incident is not linked to the Taliban. Though the Islamist militia strongly opposes women rights, this particular incident took place in November 2021 when unidentified motorcyclists gunned down a couple and their two children in Sheikhupura district of Pakistan’s Punjab province.

AFWA probe

At the seventh second in the video, one can see the license plate of the car in which the bodies are lying. The number plate says “LEH 15 6840”. The word “Punjab” can also be seen below the number plate.

Using keyword search, we found that similar number plates are being sold on Pakistani e-commerce websites. This gave us a clue that the incident might have taken place in Punjab, Pakistan.

Next, we searched for the license number “LEH 15 6840” on Facebook. It is noteworthy that the Facebook optical character recognition (OCR) system can recognise characters and numbers written on an image.

This led us to several Urdu posts, mostly from November 2021, with images identical to the viral video. The same car is also visible in these pictures. As per the description on these posts, a couple and their two daughters hailing from Lahore were shot dead at Maralpur village near Ferozwala in Sheikhupura district of Punjab, Pakistan.

Visuals from the viral footage were also used by Pakistani media outlets GNN and Dawn News.

The “Express Tribune” had published a detailed report on the incident. As per the report, Shahnawaz, a resident of Batapur in Lahore, his wife Zainab Awan, and their two daughters were attacked by armed men when they were traveling in a car on November 24, 2021. All four died on the spot and the attackers escaped.

According to the eyewitnesses, the man was found dead on the driving seat, with the woman in the passenger seat beside him. The two kids were in the back seat. This also contradicts the viral claim that the woman was driving the vehicle.

advertisement

We also contacted Sheikhupura-based journalist Syed Ali Abbas Gilani who’d shared a Facebook post on the incident. He confirmed to us that the video is indeed from Sheikhupura and the claim that the woman was killed by the Taliban for driving a car is untrue. “Initial police investigation suggests that the victims might have been murdered over an enmity,” Gilani said.

Women under Taliban

The Taliban has imposed severe restrictions on women since it came to power in Afghanistan. In the latest curb, it has announced a ban on long-distance road trips for women travelling solo. According to the new rule, a male relative should accompany women for any distance beyond 45 miles.

The new rules also call on drivers not to allow women without veils to sit in their cars. Further, women and girls’ presence in public life has become precarious across the country. Many are not being allowed to return to schools, and those who have resumed university classes are separated by a curtain from their male peers.

Restrictive rules such as stay-at-home orders continue. Most women still can’t return to work, having been barred from an array of jobs, including in the government and entertainment sectors. Women have been barred from appearing in television dramas, soap operas and entertainment shows. Women news presenters must wear headscarves on screen.

advertisement

The Taliban also abolished the ministry of women’s affairs and rolled back a key law to protect women from abuses, according to reports.

READ: Fact Check: Thermocol recycling video shared as production of artificial sugar

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Netizens go down the wrong track over this 19th century steam locomotive