Former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy is facing backlash over his son’s wedding on Friday amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Netizens have criticised the family for holding celebrations at a time when governments and health experts around the world have been stressing on social distancing and avoiding crowds. The JD(S) leader, however, said all precautionary measures were taken before the event.

Now a post circulating on social media shows Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa at an event along with Kumaraswamy and a couple dressed in wedding attire. It is being claimed that Yediyurappa also attended the wedding of HDK’s son on Friday despite the lockdown. The post is accompanied by a photo of lockdown violators being punished by the police.

advertisement

The Hindi caption of the photo translates to, “Here the ruling and opposition sides are together because they are rich Only the poor have to follow the lockdown even if they are dying of hunger” The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral post to be misleading. The photo showing Yediyurappa was taken on February 10, 2020, at the engagement ceremony of Kumaraswamy’s son in Bengaluru, and not the wedding. India was not under lockdown at that time.

We have also confirmed that Yediyurappa did not attend the wedding of Kumaraswamy’s son on Friday.

Twitter user “Pinki Chaubey”, who claims to be a writer, political observer and activist, shared the misleading post on Saturday. Her tweet has been liked by more than 3,300 users and retweeted over 1,000 times.

The post is viral on Facebook as well.

AFWA investigation

Using a reverse search, we found several media reports in which the viral picture was used. The picture was taken on February 10, 2020, when Yediyurappa attended the engagement ceremony of Kumaraswamy’s son Nikhil at Taj West End in Bengaluru.

Former chief minister @hd_kumaraswamy struggling to control the crowd during his son Nikhil Kumaraswamy's engagement with Revati at Taj West end on Monday in Bengaluru



Video by @shrirambn @NewIndianXpress @santwana99 @JanataDal_S pic.twitter.com/mxSfWik8nv— TNIE Karnataka (@XpressBengaluru) February 10, 2020

Yediyurappa’s political advisor MB Maramkal also confirmed to India Today that the viral picture is of Nikhil’s engagement and none of the CM’s family members attended the wedding.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral picture was taken at the engagement ceremony of Kumaraswamy’s son, which was held two months back, and not his wedding on Friday.