Following a string of resignations by over 50 members (including 5 cabinet ministers) of the Conservative Party in the UK, Prime Minister Boris Johnson was also forced to step down on July 7, 2022. He however remains the interim Prime Minister till the time a new leader is elected by the party.

In this backdrop, a viral video, showing the police interrogating Johnson for breaking the law by taking advantage of his position is doing rounds on social media.

A Facebook user posted the video with the caption: INVESTIGATION OF BORRIS JOHNSON – Ex. PRIME MINISTER OF UNITED KINGDOM CAN’T IMAGINE…. THIS HAPPENING IN INDIA or Somewhere else…Salute to Brave Police & Investigation Officers of UK Other countries & their investigation agencies must take a lesson from this Modi ji will make it happen in India.

You can watch the video here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the viral video and found the claim to be misleading.

On analyzing the video, we noticed the phrase ‘Led By Donkeys’ appear on the screen towards the end. Running a Google Keyword Search for the same we found that Led By Donkeys is a British political campaign group. It is an anti-Brexit group founded in 2018, and they use the medium of satire to target pro-Brexit politicians.

Searching further, we were led to the Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube accounts of the organisation. We found a shorter version of the viral clip on their YouTube channel posted on January 19, 2022.

A full-length clip of the same video was then posted by the channel on April 13, 2022, titled: It’s not just the parties. He lies about everything.

We then ran a Reverse Image Search of the keyframes from the viral video. Apart from the videos by ‘Led By Donkeys’, it led us to a YouTube video dated January 19, 2022, titled: Boris Johnson questioned by Line of Duty team in Led by Donkeys video posted by Guardian news.

The description of the video reads: The PM is questioned by AC-12 officers about lockdown breaches in a spoof episode of Line of Duty by the satirical artists Led By Donkeys.

Thereby claiming that the video is a spoof episode of the famous British police crime drama series, “Line of Duty”. The entire video was made by patching clips from Line of Duty, and some other clips of the Prime Minister’s statements on ‘partygate’.

Finally, we found a tweet by the writer of ‘Line of Duty’: Jed Mercurio. The writer tweeted the video on January 18, 2022, appreciating Led By Donkeys and calling it “Brilliant Work.”

Therefore, based on our investigation we can conclusively say that the viral video showing Boris Johnson being interrogated by police is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news