The sensational case in Kerala wherein a former UAE consulate employee attempted to smuggle in 30 kg gold worth Rs 15 crore using diplomatic channels has heated up politics in the state. The opposition has alleged that Swapna Suresh, a key accused, has links to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan's office.

Amid this, a picture purportedly of Swapna at the wedding of Vijayan's daughter last month is going viral on social media. The caption in Malayalam translates to, "A picture from Pinarayi's daughter's wedding is out".

advertisement

The viral picture shows Swapna posing for a group photo alongside the newly wedded couple, CM Vijayan, his wife Kamala, and industries and sports minister EP Jayarajan. India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral picture is morphed. Swapna did not attend Vijayan's daughter's wedding.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching the viral image, we found that the original picture was carried by "News18 Malayalam" on June 15 in a news report that covered the wedding.

Jayarajan had also posted the picture on Facebook on the same day.

CM Vijayan's daughter Veena married CPI(M) youth wing leader PA Muhammad Riyas last month. Pictures of the wedding had come up on news websites and social media.

A closer look at both the images reveals that the viral picture is morphed. Jayarajan's wife PK Indira's face was removed and Swapna's face added in her place.

Actual image

Morphed image

We also found news reports from Kerala saying that Jayarajan had filed a complaint with police against Youth Congress and RSS leaders for allegedly morphing his wife's image with Swapna. Many of those who'd posted the morphed images later deleted them.

AFWA had earlier debunked a claim that Swapna had threatened to expose ministers through a Facebook post.

Kerala CM Vijayan has been in the line of opposition fire over the sensational gold smuggling case as his principal secretary has been accused of facilitating a consultation job for Suresh with the state government.

However, the viral claim that Swapna attended Kerala CM Vijayan's daughter's wedding is false. The image circulating online is morphed.