Goa will vote on February 14 and campaigning has heated up in this tiny coastal state, with not just national parties, but several regional outfits throwing their hats in the ring as well. Besides hectic activities on the ground, social media too is loaded with political posturing to lure voters.

A portion of a speech by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is circulating on social media in which he is heard warning those indulging in corrupt practices. Several netizens have shared the clip with the claim that this was PM Modi's recent speech in Goa targetting the Congress.

advertisement

In the video, PM Modi is heard saying, "Those waiting for the right opportunity must keep me in mind. I will dig out your misdeeds since Independence. Even if I need to employ one lakh people to manage them, I will do. But corrupt practices in this country must end. And now, after a hard dose, people have come to know me."

"But this is not the end. I'm working on a few more projects to end corruption and dishonesty. I'm doing this for the honest and hard-working people of this country. I'm doing this so the poor can have a house, their children can have education, and the elderly can have medicines. And I need the blessings of Goans for this," PM Modi further says.

Multiple users have posted the video on Twitter and Facebook with a caption in Hindi that translates to, "After listening to Narendra Modi's speech in Goa today, all Congress leaders have become nervous"

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this is not a recent speech by PM Modi. It was made on November 13, 2016, a few days after demonetisation.

AFWA probe

As none of the people on stage or among the audience were wearing masks, it raised suspicion that the video might not be recent. Using InVID tool and reverse image search, we traced the original video of the speech in Goa.

First, we found a tweet posted by the official handle of BJP that shows PM Modi in the same background, with the same security person behind him, and in the same auditorium. This tweet, posted on November 13, 2016, was captioned, "PM Shri Narendra Modi while addressing in a public function in Goa on 13th November 2016."

Taking this as a clue, we found the entire speech of PM Modi uploaded on his YouTube channel on November 13, 2016. The video description says, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi lays the foundation stone for New Green Field International Airport & Electronic City in Goa".

advertisement

After one hour in this YouTube video, we found the exact portion of the speech that is now going viral.

We found multiple news reports on this event. Just a few days after announcing demonetisation, PM Modi gave his first public speech in Goa and made an emotional appeal to people to support the fight against corruption.

PM Modi last visited Goa in December 2021 and delivered a speech on the occasion of Goa Liberation Day.

Therefore, it is clear that amid hectic political activities before the assembly elections in Goa, a five-year-old video of PM Modi's speech in the state has resurfaced with misleading claims.