Ahead of Delhi Assembly election, a video of West Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Dilip Ghosh being heckled is doing rounds on the internet.

A few Facebook users shared the viral video claiming that Dilip Ghosh was thrashed by Rohingya and Bangladshi people in West Bengal.

Facebook user "Subhash Wadiya" shared a Twitter link which also had a video along with a claim in Hindi reading:

advertisement

ENGLISH: See, Rohingyas do not even allow Hindus to come to their colony in Paschim (West) Bengal. If this continues this situation will prevail in the entire nation. Congress Hindus are requested to look at this video and you will get to know the future of your children. Take off your spectacles and vote for in country's interest.

Screenshot of viral post

Here is the archived version of the post.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The video is from 2017 and Dilip Ghosh was being heckled by Gorkhas in Darjeeling.

In the 1-minute-47-second-long video, the attackers can be heard screaming in Hindi, "Gorkha ko kya samajhke rakhha hai" which translates to, "What do you think of Gorkhas."

We ran a keyword search to verify the claim.

We found several media reports in which it was stated that Dilip Ghosh was heckled by Gorkha Jana Mukti Morcha (GJM).

According to reports, on evening of October 5, Dilip Ghosh along with a seven-member delegation, other party members and supporters went to attend a 'Vijaya Sammelani' scheduled to be held in Darjeeling.

A scuffle erupted between the BJP supporters and GMJ supporters as soon as the Bengal BJP chief reached the spot. GMJ workers who gathered there to protest against the BJP leadership chased and attacked Dilip Ghosh and others accompanying him.

This was widely reported by all media organisations.

We found news articles where it was written that Dilip Ghosh had called Tamang a 'traitor' which is why the GJM workers were agitated.

We found a video on YouTube uploaded by Republic TV on October 5, 2017.

Media reports quoted Dilip Ghosh after the incident as saying, "All of a sudden they rushed to the dais and heckled everybody including me."

According to media reports, the BJP Bengal chief claimed that the agitators were supporters of expelled Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang. A police complaint was filed and police started investigating the incident.

So it is quite clear that the attackers were GJM workers and the claim that Dilip Ghosh was heckled by Rohingya people when he was entering a Hindu colony is misleading.