Is the government coming out with a new Rs 1,000 note? The currency notes of Rs 1,000 had gone out of circulation during demonetisation in 2016 and were replaced by Rs 2,000 notes. But lately, there have been reports about RBI stopping the printing of Rs 2,000 notes. Since then, the social media has been abuzz with photographs of Rs 1,000 currency notes that are going to be put in circulation soon.

advertisement

Facebook user Akhil Chaturvedi uploaded a photo of a currency note and said, "New note of 1000 first in your group". The photo carries an impression of Mahatma Gandhi on the left along with an image of a rupee in the centre and a stamp of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on the right. The archived version of this post can be seen here. People, who believed the news, said, "So many frequent changes with currency can only be termed as mockery with the currency of the country."

Some other Facebook users have used two pictures of the note to give an impression of the front and back of the new note.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the viral photograph is only an artist's impression and there is no such note that is going to be issued.

AFWA probe

On close scrutiny of the viral photo of new Rs 1,000 currency notes, AFWA found that on the right corner of the note, an "artistic imagination" can be clearly seen. This means that it is not a real image.

Just below it, 'I promise to pay the bearer the sum of one thousand prue" is written instead of 'rupees' in the end. Had it been a real note, then 'rupees' would not have been misspelt. Also, the viral currency note photo carries a signature of Mahatma Gandhi instead of the current RBI governor, Shaktikanta Das.

Das had tweeted in 2017 about no plans of issuing Rs 1,000 currency notes. Also, on the website of the RBI, there is no notification that one can find about the new Rs 1,000 currency notes being issued.

The RBI does put out press releases when new notes are issued. It had done the same on Nov 8, 2016, when new Rs 2000 currency notes rupee note and Rs 500 currency notes rupee notes were to be issued.

AFWA reached out to Yogesh Dayal, Chief General Manager, Department of Communication, RBI who said, "There's no notification from our side. All communications from the RBI appear on our website. Please don't believe in rumours."

advertisement

Conclusion

The viral image of Rs 1,000 that is being circulated on social media is clearly an artist's impression. No new Rs 1,000 currency notes are being issued by the RBI right now.