The death of African-American George Floyd in police custody has triggered massive public protests against United States President Donald Trump and his administration. Amid this, a video of people punching and kicking a life-sized doll of Trump has gone viral on social media with the claim that this is how Americans are now treating their President.

Several Facebook users such as “Krishna Rathi” and “G Singh” have recently posted a one-minute long video clip with a Hindi caption saying, “Look what Americans are doing to Trump, the uncle of Andhbhakts.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room has found that the viral video is four years old and has nothing to do with the recent protests in the US. The video montage showing people punching, kicking and slapping a life-sized doll of Trump was uploaded on YouTube days before the US presidential election in 2016.

In fact, not just Trump, but his rival candidate Hillary Clinton’s life-sized doll was also kept in public places to be punched, or kissed, by people.

The post by Facebook user “G Singh” was shared over 10,000 times till the filing of this story. The archived version can be seen here. Many Facebook users have shared the viral video believing it to be a recent one.

Using InVID and reverse image search, we found a longer version of the video on YouTube. The six-minute video was uploaded by YouTube channel “KyleLEVO” on October 26, 2016, with the title, “Trump Dummy Knock out extras”.

The link for the shorter version of the video is also mentioned in the caption. It is titled, “Punching Trump and Hillary in Public”. In the longer video, it can be seen that people are punching the dummies of both Trump and Hillary.

The caption of the YouTube video reads, “The presidential election between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton is coming up Nov. 8th. People dislike both candidates. With Trumps rape allegations and the Hillary email scandal both candidates have problems. So we set up a Trump Dummy and a Hillary Dummy for people to punch.”

Filmmaker Michael Moore has recently courted controversy after sharing this four-year-old video in response to Trump’s tweet, “LIBERATE MICHIGAN!”

November 3. Right around 8pm ET. Party’s at my place. All are welcome. https://t.co/58WBbKKLOD pic.twitter.com/qsyYfMzyVH — Michael Moore (@MMFlint) April 19, 2020

Therefore, the viral post claiming that this is a recent reaction to Trump is misleading.