A Twitter screenshot of a large number of Muslims offering namaaz on the street is viral on social media. The place is so crowded that some can be seen offering namaaz on the top of a bus. The text in the screenshot says Muslims constitute 30 per cent of India's population.

The screenshot has been posted with a caption saying, "They're the second-largest majority. When they become largest, you won't find Hindus here. The country will become like Pakistan and Bangladesh. They'll implement Sharia in place of Constitution and become an Islamic country in no time."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that as per Census 2011, Muslims were 14.2 per cent of India's population. There is no study to prove that Muslims comprise 30 per cent of India's population. Also, the picture being shared with the claim is not from India but Bangladesh.

The claim is quite viral on Facebook and Twitter. The archived version can be seen here.

Muslim population in India

We did not find any research data or news report that says the percentage of Muslims in India is 30 per cent. According to Census 2011, the percentage of Muslims in India was 14.2 per cent.

By 2050, the percentage of Muslims in India is expected to be around 18.4 per cent, as per a report by US-based Pew Research Center. This means even 30 years later, the Muslim population in India is not expected to come close to 30 per cent. The same report predicts that the Hindu population in India would be around 76.7 per cent by 2050.

The annual growth rate of Muslim and Hindu population in India is 2.2 per cent and 1.55 per cent respectively, according to a reportby "LiveMint". This data is based on Census 2011.

Tracing the viral image

We found that the viral picture shows the proceedings of a religious event called 'Ijtema' held in Tongi, Bangladesh. This is the second largest Muslim gathering in the world after Haj.

Reverse-searching the viral image, we found it was used in reports by "HuffPost", "Business Insider" and "New York Post".

In "HuffPost", the picture caption says, "People at Prayer Ijtema is the second largest muslim gatherings in the world after Hazz.The gatherings is so huge that people did not get place at the field to pray jumma prayer and sited themselves at road."

Thus, it is clear that the claim of India having a Muslim population of 30 per cent lacks evidence. Also, the picture of Muslims offering prayers on the street in large numbers is from Tongi in Bangladesh.