Recently, US President Joe Biden moved 12,000 troops along the borders with Russia, such as Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, and Romania, vowing to “defend every inch of NATO territory — every single inch.”

Despite the White House's refusal to make a military intervention in Ukraine, a video has gone viral on social media featuring soldiers being paradropped from a Globemaster III aircraft. Several posts on social media claim this video shows US soldiers landing in Ukraine. One such post can be seen here.

advertisement

The India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found the claim to be false. This video is from 2016 and shows the Airborne units of the US military making a static line jump. It is unrelated to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war.

AFWA Probe

First, we checked if the US had announced a military intervention in Ukraine. Using advanced search on Google, we filtered out the latest developments on the subject. However, there were no such news reports.

A reverse search of the viral video's keyframes gave several results. This included articles on a YouTube video released in 2016 about the mobile game Pokemon GO. The video was released by animator Nicholas King aka 'Nickels', who combined CGI with original footage of paratroopers to create a dark comedy about how common Pokemons were distributed. We identified that the frame in which the Pokemons are loaded on the aircraft looked similar to a scene in the viral video. The background of both these frames looked the same.

The video was uploaded on Nickel's YouTube channel on August 8, 2016.

We also found a webpage called 'Wordless Tech' that had a similar photo. The page was titled 'Paratroopers Static Line Jump'. Published on July 28, 2016, the image was a screenshot from the video in which soldiers boarded the plane.

"Watch those paratroopers performing static line jumps from C-17 Globemaster III aircraft. They are from the 82nd and 101st Airborne Division, jumping over Sicily Drop Zone at Fort Bragg, North Carolina," the webpage read.

Pursing this clue, we looked up Fort Bragg military installation on Google Maps. Using 3D satellite and Street View options, we discovered that the buildings and lamb poles of Fort Bragg's Pope Army Airfield looked similar to the ones in the video.

The Wordless Tech page also had a link to a YouTube page. This took us to a longer version of the video that went viral as the American intervention in the Russia-Ukraine war. The verified page of AiirSource Military, which has 39.7 lakh subscribers, uploaded the video on May 28, 2016.

The description of the video was the same as the one found on Wordless Tech.

advertisement

Hence, we concluded that this video had nothing to do with the Russia-Ukraine war — it was almost six years old.