An old message about free mobile recharge has resurfaced on social media. The viral message now claims that Yogi Adityanath’s government is giving free mobile recharge to celebrate the UP elections win.

Readers of Fact Crescendo forwarded this message to our WhatsApp FactLine (9049053770) and requested to do a fact-check on it.

Fact Crescendo found that the viral message is false.

What is the claim?

A close reading of the message reveals that at one place it says “Covid-19: Free Recharge Offer” but the message claims the scheme is to celebrate BJP’s big win in the UP. It raises doubt over the authenticity of the message.

Facebook | Archive

FACT CHECK

A close reading of the message reveals that at one place it says “Covid-19: Free Recharge Offer” but the message claims the scheme is to celebrate BJP’s big win in the UP. It raises doubt over the authenticity of the message.

Fact Crescendo contacted Principal Director General of PIB Shri Jaideep Bhatnagar.

“This viral message is not true. This is not the first time such message is going viral. Last year, too, the same message was shared in the name of Covid-19 recharge offer,” he said.

PIB had also debunked the viral message on 10 December 2021. PIB tweeted “Indian government did not make any announcement regarding three months free recharge on the occasion of reaching a record Covid-19 vaccination. PIB also asked the users neither to share personal details nor to forward such messages.”

दावा:देश में रिकॉर्ड वैक्सीनेशन होने की खुशी में भारत सरकार सभी भारतीय यूज़र्स को 3 महीने का रिचार्ज फ्री में दे रही है#PIBFactCheck



☑️भारत सरकार द्वारा ऐसी कोई घोषणा नहीं की गयी है

☑️ऐसे किसी फर्जी मैसेज के लिंक पर अपनी कोई निजी जानकारी साझा न करें और न ही इन्हें फॉरवर्ड करें pic.twitter.com/Hln90XTlyM — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) December 10, 2021

We also contacted the Media Department of Reliance Industries, who informed us that no such announcement was made by the company regarding free recharge. This is a hoax message.

CONCLUSION

Fact Crescendo found the claim to be false. PIB confirmed that the government is not giving free recharge to people.