Amid escalating Israel-Palestine clashes, a video of a fake funeral procession is being shared on social media with the claim that it shows youth from Gaza faking a funeral procession in front of international media to gain the world’s sympathy.

In the 27-second video, we can see some men carrying a “dead person” and putting the stretcher down as soon as police sirens are heard in the background. The person pretending to be dead also makes a run.

advertisement

The caption with one such video reads, “Watch as these Palestinians stage a fake funeral in order to gain sympathy from the world and try and make Israel look bad, fools!!”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This is a 2020 video from Jordan where some youths faked a funeral procession to get out of their homes during a curfew imposed by the government due to Covid-19.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here, here and here.

AFWA probe

As the video became viral, we saw several users calling it visuals from Jordan. Taking a cue from this, we did a reverse image search of key frames of the video with appropriate Arab keywords and found the same visuals from the video carried in a news report by Egyptian daily “Youm7”.

According to this report published on March 24, 2020, the video shows youths of Jordan faking a funeral procession, with one of their friends acting as the deceased person. As per the report, the youths did so to step out of their homes amid a curfew imposed in the nation due to Covid-19.

A still from the viral video

In March 2020, a mandatory curfew was imposed in Jordan by then Prime Minister Omar Razzaz to control the spread of coronavirus.

In March 2020, the verified YouTube channel of “Orient TV” and the verified Twitter handle of “24.ae”, both news sites based out of UAE, also shared the video as a fake funeral procession by Jordan youths to escape the Covid-19 induced curfew.

In March last year, several social media users had also shared the same video as an incident from Jordan.

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is not related to the Gaza conflict.