A video clip of 'Dance India Dance' has gone viral on the Internet showing a contestant threatening the judges for rejecting him. Many social media users claim the contestant is the son of a BJP leader.

Actor-turned-politician Nagma tweeted the video, saying, "A BJP top leader's son auditioning for Dance India Dance (Noida edition) created a disgusting & shameless scene along with his father & other goons. Welcome to "REAL" India ! Jai Ho. dhamki bjp ki chalega UP mein".

advertisement

Many Facebook users have also posted the video with the same claim.

In the viral clip, the contestant can be seen threatening that his father is a builder in Noida and warns the judges of severe consequences if they do not select him. Later, as he was asked to leave the stage, the contestant, along with a man who claimed to be his father, created chaos on the stage.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is of a prank pulled on the judges in an episode aired in 2015. A cropped version of the episode is being circulated on social media with the false claim.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here. Under fire from netizens, yesteryear actor and Congress leader Nagma later deleted her tweet.

The prank

Soon after Nagma tweeted the viral clip with the false narrative, many social media users pointed out that it was a prank video and tagged an article by fact-check website "Boom Live".

The viral clip has been taken from a five-year-old episode of Zee TV's 'Dance India Dance'.

The drama began 40 minutes into the episode, when the contestant after being rejected, started threatening the three judges, Mudassar Khan, Punit Pathak and Gaiti Siddiqui, saying his father is a top builder in Noida. He even tried to bribe the judges before being asked to quit the stage.

The contestant returned with his father and created a ruckus, threatening the judges. Security men and other staff of the production unit tried to pacify them.

Suddenly, at around the 46th minute, music begins and everybody starts dancing, hugging Punit Pathak. Actually, the prank was pulled on him.

Therefore, the viral claim by Nagma and other social media users claiming the incident to be a BJP leader threatening the judges of a dance reality show for rejecting his son is false.