In a recent tweet , Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed that his government is going to establish India's first teachers' university. But his claim is false since there already exist established universities and colleges for teachers' education in the country. "Delhi government will establish the country's first teachers' university this year. Where the best teachers of the country and the world will be trained and produced," he tweeted.



दिल्ली सरकार इस साल देश की पहली टीचर्स यूनिवर्सिटी की स्थापना करेगी। जहां देश और दुनिया के बेहतरीन शिक्षक तैयार किए जाएंगे। — Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) March 9, 2021



This is when universities like the Indian Institute of Teacher Education ( IITE ) in Gandhinagar, Gujarat, the Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University in Chennai and Sabarmati University which was formerly known as Calorx Teachers' University in Ahmedabad, Gujarat have been providing teachers' education in India for years now.



महोदय , देश के प्रधानमंत्री नरेन्द्र मोदी जी जब गुजरात के मुख्यमंत्री थे तब उन्होंने 2011 में IITE ( टीचर्स युनिवर्सिटी)की स्थापना की है । और फिलहाल में उस युनिवर्सिटी के कुलपति का दायित्व निभा रहा हु। https://t.co/eupW8XRVKn — Harshad Patel (हर्षद पटेल ) (@harshad5350) March 9, 2021





Harshad Patel, vice-chancellor of IITE, refuted the CM's claim by tweeting that the current Prime Minister Narendra Modi had already established IITE in Gujarat in 2011 when he was the state's chief minister. However, it is to be noted that Harshad Patel's twitter account is not verified.



State universities and colleges providing teachers' education

The Indian Institute of Teacher Education (IITE), Gujarat

IITE which is located in Gandhinagar, Gujarat, was established in 2010 by the then chief minister of the state Narendra Modi, according to the university's website . The university offers undergraduate, postgraduate and research (PhD) programmes for students. The current chancellor is Acharya Devvrat and the vice-chancellor is Harshad Patel.

Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University, Tamil Nadu

The government of Tamil Nadu set up the Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University in Chennai in 2008 to provide excellence in teachers' education, as mentioned in the university's website . Currently, Banwarilal Purohit is its chancellor.

Sabarmati University, Gujarat

Sabarmati University, previously known as Calorx Teachers' University was formed in 2009. It was a state private university established by the state legislature of Gujarat Act No 8 which enables the state to set up a private university. It was further amended in 2019, its website shows.