A video of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is making the rounds on social media where he can be seen reading from a notebook. The PM was seen using a pen as a pointer, moving it across the text as he supposedly read it.

A Facebook user shared this video with the claim in Bangla that translates to, “What a true actor he is! He is pretending to write something. But he is not writing anything.”

advertisement

Another Facebook user shared a more detailed version of the same video with the claim, “Modi pretending to write. Great acting skills!”

The India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claim along with the video to be misleading. PM Modi was going through a text that was written on his behalf by a member of his team before signing it. He wasn’t pretending to write.

Archived version of the posts with similar claims can be seen here and here.

AFWA PROBE

We conducted a reverse search of the screenshots of the video to get the full version of the video used in these posts.

The video was uploaded to YouTube on February 16, 2022, when the Prime Minister paid a visit to the Guru Ravidas Vishram Dham Temple in Karol Bagh in New Delhi. The full video provides us with a wholly different picture.

At the 7.50-minute mark, one can see Modi sitting in a chair and going through a text written on a notebook in front of him. While going through the text, he was holding a pen. Around 25-30 seconds ahead, he wrote something just below the text.

Now, the questions that remain: What was Modi reading and what did he write?

To confirm this, we got in touch with Shreya Chatterjee, the India Today correspondent, who was present in Karol Bagh at the time of the event. She confirmed that it was actually the visitors’ book of the temple that Modi had signed.

“Someone from the Prime Minister’s team had penned down Modi’s experience during his visit. It is a standard practice. Before giving his signature Modi went through the entire text,” Chatterjee said.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the claim along with this video is misleading. Modi was going through a text written on his behalf before signing it. He was not pretending to write it on camera.