Communal violence broke out in Delhi’s Jahangirpuri following a Shobha Yatra organised as part of Hanuman Jayanti on April 16. Several police officers were injured in the clash. The Delhi Police has, so far, held 22 people and apprehended two juveniles in connection with the incident that took place on Saturday.

A video has been making the rounds on social media with claims that it showed a group of men raising slogans in support of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and asking for swift and strict action. In the video, the men can be heard chanting for cops and the administration to employ the “lath” or the rod.

advertisement

Captions alongside the videos asked for an equivalent of “Bulldozer Baba” — a nickname given to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath — in New Delhi and included hashtags like #DelhiPolice and #DelhiRiots2022.

The archived version of a similar post can be seen here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that this video has been circulating on the internet at least since December 2019.

AFWA probe

A reverse search of stills from the video led us to YouTube where the same video was shared in December 2019.

Bharatiya Janata Party leader Jawahar Yadav Tweeted the same video on December 26, 2019, claiming it was from a pro-Citizenship (Amendment) Act rally held in Haryana.

Further searches led us to a longer version of the same video uploaded on Facebook on December 22, 2019. Towards the end of this one-minute-32-second video, we could hear the men chanting slogans in support of the CAA.

In this version of the video, we also noticed a shop’s signage that read “BANSALS BOUTIQUE”. As per the information provided on Just Dial, the shop was located in the Lakshmi Nagar main market in New Delhi.

A representative of the boutique also confirmed to us that the shop was located in Lakshmi Nagar.

A comparison between the Facebook video and the image of Bansals Boutique and shops nearby uploaded to Google Maps can be seen below.

In a different Google Maps image from the same street, we saw Lakshmi Nagar, New Delhi, written on one of the signs. A Google Street View of the location can be seen here.

Lakshmi Nagar in East Delhi witnessed multiple protests in support of and against the CAA and the National Register of Citizens in late 2019 and early 2020.

We thus concluded this video was old and not related to the recent communal violence in Jahangirpuri.