Has London been bitten by the Bhojpuri music bug? Well, a video of foreigners dancing on the popular Bhojpuri number 'Lollypop Lagelu' is driving social media crazy. Twitter users claimed that it was because of Indians reaching London for ICC Cricket World Cup 2019 that this popular song was being played.

advertisement

Twitter user 'Sandeep Mittal, IPS, shared the video of foreigners dancing to the tune of 'Lollypop Lagelu' on Wednesday (June 12). Mittal's tweet has been retweeted more than 400 times and liked by over 1,300 users at the time of filing this story. India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is not from London but from a cultural fest at Berlin in Germany.

This video is being circulated widely on Facebook as well. Facebook page 'Indian National Cricket Team - World Champions' uploaded this post with the same claim.

This post has been shared by 15,000 users at the last count.

AFWA did a reverse search and found that the video was from the 'Karneval der Kulturen' or the 'Carnival of Cultures' festival organised at Berlin. The four-day-long cultural fest culminates into a colourful street parade charged with music and dance. This year, the festival was held between June 7 and 10 and the details can be read at the official website

Carnival of Cultures (Image: berlin.de)

A search in YouTube for 'Carnival of Cultures' also threw up some similar videos of the festival from different angles which can be watched here.

This procession of revelers can be seen in another video where the same people wearing red dress, a person waving the Indian flag and speakers deck can be seen over a vehicle which is visible in the viral video too.

Even in the video that is going viral, on the vehicle where the Indian flag is being waved, a banner says 'Berlin Indiawaale'. AFWA got in touch with Neeraja Nair in Berlin, one of the administrators of the group Berlin Indiawaale. She herself was present at the festival on June 9 when the procession took place. Nair said, "This year, 73 countries displayed their culture at the festival. We walked about 3-5 kilometre. We were probably around the street called Herman Platz, where a Ganesha temple is also located, when the Bhojpuri song was played."

Berlin Indiawaale group was formed in 2014. Berlin Indiawaale group has been showcasing Indian songs since 2015 at the Carnival of Cultures fest. The group selects songs from across India for this festival every year to make sure the diversity of our country is presented to the international audience.

advertisement

Also read | Fact Check: Viral photo of atrocities on this woman is not related to love jihad

Also read | Fact Check: No, these students were not arrested in Kolkata on their way to terror training