A thirty-second video showing a moving two-wheeler explode into flames is widely being shared on social media claiming to show an electric scooter explosion (scooter with rechargeable battery). Newschecker’s investigation found the scooter was not an electric scooter explosion, and that the explosion was caused by country-made firecrackers that was being carried.

Screenshot of the Facebook post

The video, carrying the logo of PTC News, a Punjabi news channel, was widely shared by social media users on Facebook and Twitter, claiming that the tragic accident took place due to an electric scooter explosion.

Screengrabs of FB posts that shared the video with the same claim

Newschecker also received a request from a user on its WhatsApp helpline number (+91 9999499044), to check the veracity of the video.

Fact check/Verification

To check the authenticity of the video, Newchecker ran several keyword searches on Google and found an article by The New Indian Express, carrying one of the keyframes from the same video.

According to the report, the explosion happened in Kottakuppam, in Tamil Nadu’s Villupuram during Diwali this year, when a 36-year-old man and his 7-year-old son were carrying country-made firecrackers on their two-wheeler, killing them both.

The article quotes a local police officer, who clarifies that the explosion could have occurred due to friction. The entire incident was also captured on CCTV.

The video was also tweeted out by the twitter handle of television channel Mirror Now, which carried the viral video in one of it’s news segments.

FATHER-SON KILLED IN CRACKER EXPLOSION

A man and his seven-year-old son died in a cracker explosion in Puducherry on Diwali. The incident occurred when two bags of firecrackers they were carrying on a bike burst into flames. Times Network's Shabbir Ahmed with the report! pic.twitter.com/iYVJUSqaLR — Mirror Now (@MirrorNow) November 5, 2021

Newschecker further contacted Bagalavan Perier B, who reported the incident for The New Indian Express, who confirmed that the accident occurred when the father and son were returning home carrying local firecrackers. He also informed us that the duo were riding a Yamaha Fascino and not an electric vehicle.

Investigating officer, Saravanan also reiterated the same. “They were not riding an electric (battery) scooter. They were riding a Yamaha Fasino,” he added.

Newschecker also found the video on PTC news’ official Facebook page where the caption in Punjabi reads, ‘Horrific death of father and son caused by firecrackers.’

Conclusion

The viral video, claiming to show an electric scooter explosion actually took place due to country-made firecrackers. The vehicle that exploded is not an electric scooter.

Result: Misleading

Sources

Our sources

The New Indian Express

If you would like us to fact check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 or email us at checkthis@newschecker.in. You can also visit the Contact Us page and fill the form.