Union Minister Giriraj Singh on Monday claimed that Congress party is the world's second-most corrupt party. His claim was based on a news report in website bbcnewshub.com. This website has nothing to do with the BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation).



Giriraj Singh tweeted from his official verified twitter handle, Top 10 List of Most Corrupt Political Party in the World 2018 and Rahul Gandhi-led Congress making it all the way to 2nd spot ...congratulations to the most corrupt political party. You are shame for India

advertisement

The tweet now stands deleted.

At the time of writing this report, the tweet had been retweeted more than 1,400 times, with over 3,000 likes.

Giriraj Singh referred to an article dated July 5, 2018, published on the website bbcnewshub.com to substantiate his claim. The article has given a list of the top 10 most corrupt political parties of 2018, where Congress party tops the list, just below Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) - PML (N).



India Today Fact Check team found that bbcnewshub.com is an imposter website, which is trying to confuse readers with world’s leading news portal www.bbc.com. The fake website is intentionally using by-line as BBC News. Only after hovering mouse on the by-line BBC News Hub can be seen. The referred article also does not provide any source of its finding, and neither talks about the methodology used to reach at this conclusion.

The About us section of the website is full of grammatical mistakes and the language is drafted poorly.

On 17 September 2018, TV Mohandas Pai had also referred to this particular website for claiming Congress as one of the world’s most corrupt parties.

The same dubious website bbcnewshub.com on November 23, 2017, had declared PM Narendra Modi among top 10 most corrupt prime ministers for the year 2018.

That time, too, many people fell for this fake news thinking that it is from the BBC.

Also Read: Fact Check: Viral claims about Sambit Patra's removal as BJP spokesperson are false