A video — showing people enjoying on the beach before large waves swept away some of them — is widely shared on social media, claiming that this incident occurred in Mumbai’s Bandra as rains continue to batter various parts of Maharashtra. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicts heavy downpours in the state’s capital.

The video is shared on Facebook with a Hindi caption: “मुंबई में बांद्रा समुद्र तट पर लहरों के साथ खिलवाड़ पर करना पड़ा दो महिलाओं को भारी ऊंची लहरें बहा ले गई 2 महिलाओं को लहरों की ताकत को कम आंकना लील गया जिंदगी सावधान:- कभी भी‌ कहीं भी हवा, पानी, और आग से खिलवाड़ नहीं करना चाहिये” (English translation: Two women, while playing on Bandra beach in Mumbai, were washed away by huge waves. They lost their lives by underestimating the power of waves Caution: Never mess with air, water, and fire anywhere)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

Using the InVid Tool, we extracted keyframes from the viral video and performed a Reverse Image Search. This search directed us to a verified Twitter handle of a news organisation that carried the same video on July 12, 2022, with a caption: “Watch: A family is swept away by a giant wave on #Oman’s Mughsail beach after eight members reportedly crossed the boundary fence of the beach.”

Watch: A family is swept away by a giant wave on #Oman‘s Mughsail beach after eight members reportedly crossed the beach’s boundary fence.https://t.co/2KHqOMobdD pic.twitter.com/w2auuYfUku — Al Arabiya English (@AlArabiya_Eng) July 12, 2022

We also found a tweet by Royal Oman Police, dated July 10, 2022, stating: “An Asian family of five people was swept away by the waves, including three children, after they crossed the safety barrier on the rocky cliff in the Mughsail area in the Dhofar Governorate and fell into the sea… the search and rescue teams are following up.”

انجراف عائلة آسيوية مكونة من خمسة أشخاص بفعل قوة الأمواج بينهم ثلاثة أطفال بعد تخطيهم حاجز الأمان بالجرف الصخري في منطقة المغسيل بمحافظة ظفار وسقوطهم في البحر، ويتم المتابعة من قِبل فِرق البحث والانقاذ#شرطة_عمان_السلطانية pic.twitter.com/9yJ1QykJJC — شرطة عُمان السلطانية (@RoyalOmanPolice) July 10, 2022

Another report, published by NDTV on July 14, 2022, that carried visuals similar to the viral video, says: “A man from Maharashtra and his six-year-old son drowned while playing at a beach in Oman yesterday. According to police, his nine-year-old daughter is also missing and rescuers are searching for her.”

The same video was also published by NDTV’s Facebook handle on July 14, with the caption: “#NDTVBeeps | Watch: Indian Man, 2 Children Swept Away On Oman Beach”

Thus, it is evident from the above information that the viral claim is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news