Several websites and Facebook users have posted an article which claims that a restaurant in New York City has got a license to serve human flesh as part of their menu.

The article says, "The restaurant, simply called SKIN, received a license after petitioning the state and federal governments over laws against cannibalism."

"As a species, we are at the top of the food chain, and the only meat left to tackle was other humans. We battled long and hard to be able to serve human meat in our restaurant, and the government finally conceded that we were in the right," the article quotes "SKIN owner Mario Dorcy, a 4-star Michelin chef", as saying.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be a hoax. The website, which had originally published this article in 2016, is a platform for humorous and satirical articles.

Several Facebook users have shared the article, and believing the claim to be true, netizens have reacted strongly.

Among the several websites that have published the viral article, entertainment website "elitenewspress.com" has mentioned the URL link of the original story.

Entertainment website "empirenews.net" originally published this article on March 15, 2016, with the headline "New York City Restaurant Becomes First To Get License To Serve Human Flesh". The disclaimer section of the website says it publishes satirical and fictional stories.

The disclaimer reads, "Empire News is intended for entertainment purposes only. Our website and social media content uses only fictional names, except in cases of public figure and celebrity parody or satirization. Any other use of real names is accidental and coincidental."

But this kind of disclaimer is not available in other websites that have published the viral article.

Therefore, it is evident that the viral article with the outrageous claim that a New York restaurant has got a license to serve human flesh is far from facts. It was originally a satire article meant for entertainment.

International fact-check website "Snopes" had earlier debunked the claim.