Twelve people were arrested in four cases after two groups engaged each other physically in Telangana's Nizamabad district over the installation of a Shivaji statue. The issue boiled over to Nizamabad's Bodhan town on Sunday, March 20, where Section 144 was imposed by the police to avoid further untoward incidents.



Amid this, a video went viral on social media allegedly showing Hindu groups en route to Bodhan from Maharashtra. "Thousands of Hindu brothers are arriving in Bodhan from Maharashtra," one such post was captioned.

advertisement

Similar claims have been archived here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claim was misleading. This video has been in circulation online since at least 2020.

AFWA Probe

We started by checking for reports on the movement of pro-Shivaji groups from Maharashtra to Telangana or Andhra Pradesh. We did not find anything relevant. All stories we came across were about the state of affairs in Bodhan.

Then, we ran a reverse search of the video's keyframes. Among the results were a few YouTube uploads that claimed the video was shot in Maharashtra's Nandgaon during the Shivaji Jayanti celebrations in 2020.



"SHIV JAYANTHI UTSAW (NANDGAON)," the title of a video uploaded on February 27, 2020 read.

"Nandgaon bike rally for shiv jayanti," another video uploaded on March 14, 2020, was titled.

We searched with these keywords on YouTube and found a few more versions of the same video that didn't pop up on Google. Shivaji Jayanti falls on February 19. All the videos were uploaded on days after February 19, 2020, we confirmed.

We conducted another round of reverse search of the video's keyframes using combinations of keywords in Marathi and English to spot authentic reports on the video's origin. However, we couldn't find any.

This report will be updated once the source is confirmed.

However, it can be safely concluded that the video of saffron-clad bikers is not associated with the row over Shivaji's statue in Telangana's Bodhan.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal in New Delhi)