A post has gone viral on social media claiming that ISRO has developed a web portal called “Radio Garden”, where you can access live radio stations across the globe and listen to any frequency for free.

The post reads: “अप्रतिम…आमचा इस्रो खाली दिलेल्या लिंकवर क्लिक करा…..मग तुम्हाला हिरवे ठिपके दिसतील…ते जगभरातील FM रेडिओ स्टेशन आहेत…जेव्हा तुम्ही कोणत्याही हिरव्यावर क्लिक कराल. dot तुम्ही संबंधित भागातील एफएम रेडिओ ऐकू शकता आणि आनंद घेऊ शकता.. आश्चर्याची गोष्ट म्हणजे अशा प्रकारे ऐकण्यासाठी कोणत्याही इअरफोनची गरज नाही…. फक्त अप्रतिम… अभिमान आहे आमच्या ISRO.” (English translation: “Awesome…Our ISRO, click the link below…Then you will see the green spots…These are FM radio stations around the world.. When you click on any green dot you can listen and enjoy the FM radio in the relevant area. Surprisingly, no earphones are needed to listen to this way… Simply amazing… Proud of our ISRO. “Thank you ISRO*”)

The link to the post can be seen here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile did the fact-check, and found it to be misleading.

On the website of Radio Garden, it is mentioned that it is based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The description reads: “Radio Garden invites you to tune into thousands of live radio stations across the globe. By bringing distant voices close, radio connects people and places. From its very beginning, radio signals have crossed borders. Radio makers and listeners have imagined both connecting with distant cultures, as well as re-connecting with people from ‘home’ from thousands of miles away.”

According to a website — The Ledger: “The project began in 2016 when it was commissioned by the Netherlands Institute for Sound and Vision. It was supposed to be temporary and only on the web. But by 2018, it was available in an app, and by 2019, the founders had turned it into an independent company.”

PIB Fact Check also tweeted to refute the viral claim. The tweet reads: “A message claiming that @isro has developed a radio portal called “Radio Garden” that enables people to listen to stations from across the world is circulating on social media. #PIBFactCheck This claim is #FAKE. No such radio portal has been developed by #ISRO.”

Hence, we can ascertain that the viral claim is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news