A new viral video allegedly shows a counter-terror operation at a metro station in Faridabad, Haryana. Security officers can be seen aiming guns at a kneeling man with his hands up.

In the video that appears to be shot from inside a metro train, a woman can be heard saying, ”It was being announced for many days regarding terrorist activities in Faridabad. Today the force has been deployed.”

advertisement

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

AFWA found that this video is from a mock drill by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and does not show a real terrorist getting nabbed.

AFWA Probe

We could not see the name of the metro station in the video. We did, however, notice a highrise with boards reading “SSR” and “CMR” in the backdrop. We searched for “SSR” and “CMR” on Google Maps and found images of a similar-looking building uploaded by users. As per Google, the building is located in Mathura Road, Ekta Nagar, Faridabad, Haryana.

On Google Maps we were also able to figure out that NHPC Chowk is the metro station closest to this building.

We further searched for videos of NHPC Chowk metro station on YouTube and found a video from the station that gives a similar angle of the SSR Corporate Park building as seen in the viral video.

Thus, we were able to ascertain that the video is from NHPC Chowk metro station in Faridabad. Subsequently, we reached out to Sube Singh, the spokesperson for the Faridabad Police, for more information.

Speaking to India Today, Singh said that the video shows a mock drill conducted by the CISF.

“What you see in the video is a mock drill by CISF which took place at NHPC Chowk metro station on June 24. This was part of routine activity and apart from CISF no other force was involved,” he said.

Faridabad Police and the fact check division of PIB have also tweeted that the video in question does not show a terrorist being apprehended.

A video is #viral on social media claiming that a terrorist has been caught at a Delhi metro station and people must avoid travelling in metro.#PIBFactCheck



This claim is false.



It is a video of mock-drill conducted by @CISFHQrs @OfficialDMRC pic.twitter.com/9WGgrLDjRq — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) June 27, 2022

It is thus clear that the viral video is part of a mock drill by the CISF.

(With input from Yash Mittal)