Did Prime Minister Narendra Modi meet Dr Manmohan Singh recently for his advice on the economy before the upcoming Union budget?

A video of Modi meeting the former PM is going viral on social media with the claim that it signals the critical condition of India’s economy. The video shows Modi being received by Singh and his wife Gursharan Kaur.

Facebook pages such as With Priyanka posted this video with a Hindi caption, Modi ka Manmohan Singh se milne jaana paryapt sanket hai ki arthvyavyastha choupat ho chuki hai. Bina matlab ye aadmi apni maa ke paas bhi nahin jata (Modi meeting Manmohan Singh is enough to signal the pathetic condition of the economy. This person does not even visit his mother without any purpose).

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The viral video of the Modi-Manmohan meeting is from 2014.

Economist Dr Manmohan Singh was the finance minister in the Narasimha Rao government. He was also the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India and served the Planning Commission as deputy chairman.

Many on social media shared the post on Facebook and Twitter as they believed the claim that Modi might have met Singh to discuss the current economic situation of the country.

The Facebook post by With Priyanka has been shared by more than 1,500 users till the time of writing this article.

Other Facebook pages such as Rahul Gandhiand Sachin Pilot Fans Club have also posted the video with the same claim.

The same content is also available on Twitter .

What actually happened

To find the true story, AFWA used keywords such as PM Modi meets Manmohan Singh, and found the same video on YouTube. This video was uploaded by the YouTube channel Narendra Modi on May 27, 2014.

The meeting was reported by several mainstream media houses. The report published by The Economic Times can be read here.

According to these reports, it was a courtesy call by then newly sworn-in PM Modi to his predecessor Manmohan Singh at the latter’s new residence at 3, Motilal Nehru Place in New Delhi.

Last month, there were news reports finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman meeting Manmohan Singh ahead of the Budget. There was no official word on what transpired at the meeting.

But the viral video of Modi meeting Manmohan Singh is of 2014 and has got nothing to do with India’s economic condition.

Also read: Fact Check: No, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau is not converting to Islam

Also read: Fact Check: No, this woman with a kid was not thrashed by police in UP