A video of a man holding two guns and threatening the Modi government has gone viral amid the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan.

Netizens claim that this is a recent video released by Pakistani Taliban militants.

The man seen in this 55-second video is saying, “Even before it’s time for the morning namaz, we shall hoist the Pakistani flag in New Delhi. Pay attention, Modi government, our guns are not meant for just show. They are meant to punish the oppressors like you.”

advertisement

Pakistani-Canadian author Tarek Fateh also posted this video with the caption, “Here comes the threat to India by the Pakistani Taliban. “We will fly the Pakistan flag over Delhi in less than 24 hours,” the pumpkin bellows. How does one country produce.?”

The archived version of this post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is at least two years old and has nothing to do with the recent developments in Afghanistan.

AFWA probe

We reverse searched some frames of the video on Google and found that many social media users have shared it in 2019. This confirms that the video is not recent.

A YouTube user had posted it in 2019 with the caption, ‘Tribal pakhtun leader Sayed kabir afridi last warning to india’.

Taking a cue from here, we did a keyword search in Urdu language and found that many Facebook users have shared this video and claimed that the man is a Pakistani politician Sayed Kabir Afridi.

We found a Facebook page with the name ‘Said kaber offecial page’ which had posted the viral video on February 25, 2019.

Interestingly, two photographs of a man dressed in the same style, holding very similar guns, as seen in the viral video, were posted on this Facebook page.

As mentioned in a recent post on this Facebook page, the full name of this person is mentioned Malik Syed Kabir, General Secretary of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam Party in Khyber district of Pakistan.

We did not find any recent report on Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), commonly known as Pakistan Taliban, threatening Modi government after the recent Taliban’s return to Afghanistan.

We could not independently verify the identity of the man seen in the viral video. But it is confirmed that the video itself is old and in no way related to the recent developments in Afghanistan.