Amid border tensions with China and Nepal’s posturing towards India, a video of a huge protest has gone viral on social media with the claim that people in Nepal have started to revolt and come out on the streets against their Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli for kowtowing Beijing.

Nepal had recently objected to a road constructed in Indian territory, and then went on to incorporate three Indian territories in a new political map passed by its Parliament. Commentators on international relations see China’s hand behind this.

advertisement

On Facebook, several users have posted the 35-second clip a top shot of a large number of people marching on the streets. The caption in Bengali along with the video translates to, “The people of Nepal have started revolting against their Prime Minister for acting like a pimp of China. We thank the people of Nepal. Long live the brotherly relation between India and Nepal.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim with the video is misleading. The protest video is indeed from Kathmandu but the people were demonstrating against the Nepal government for its alleged failure to control the spread of Covid-19, and also against lockdown.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here. The viral post has been shared by multiple Facebook users.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID and reverse image search, we found that the viral video was uploaded by a YouTube channel called “Kinima TV” on June 11. The title of the video says, “People hit the streets in Nepal protesting against the lockdown”.

We found still pictures of the same protest tweeted by senior Nepalese journalist and presenter Anita Bindu on June 11, calling it an uprising of Nepali youth against the government.

News reports of the protest march on several Nepalese news websites and YouTube channels confirm that the country had witnessed strong anti-government demonstrations in early June against the Oli government’s alleged failure to handle the Covid-19 pandemic.

According to these news reports, on June 11, a gathering of hundreds of people marching towards Kathmandu’s Baluwatar area near the Prime Minister’s residence faced stiff resistance from Nepalese police, who used water cannons and batons against the protesters.

Nepal was under lockdown since March 24, and people wanted a better alternative from the government to handle the Covid-19 crisis.

It is true that pressure is building up on PM Oli from inside and outside his party after the map dispute with India.

But the viral video of people protesting against the Nepal government is not related to its pro-China stance but the Oli government’s alleged failure to control the Covid-19 pandemic.