Amid the political crisis in Maharashtra, a video of rebel Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde has been making the rounds on social media. Those sharing it speculated if Shinde was drunk in the video.

In the viral video, Shinde, surrounded by reporters, appeared drowsy and struggled to answer when asked questions. Noted lawyer and activist Prashant Bhusan shared this 30-second clip, asking, "Rebel Shiv Sena leader Shinde. Was drunk on power or just drunk?"

advertisement

Archived versions of such posts can be seen here.

AFWA found these claims to be misleading as the video does not show the whole story. It was clipped out of context to give it a false spin.

AFWA Probe

As the logo of “MH04 Media” was visible in the viral video, we tried to trace the original one by visiting the channel's Facebook page. But the original video was no longer available on that page. We then tried to reach out to Sandeep Labde, the editor of the channel, but he did not respond to our calls.

Following this, we searched for a full-length video with relevant keywords. The results led us to a Facebook user who shared a one-minute-long clip of Eknath Shinde talking to the press from the exact location.

The video’s caption said, "This is the original and the complete video. Claims of Eknath Shinde reaching drunk at the Surat airport are baseless as the video was clipped to half to give it a false spin,"

In this video, Shinde starts talking about Shiv Sena's ideals around the 22-second mark. This is the point where the viral video ends, making it look like Shinde was intoxicated and was unable to speak properly.

Another person shared a longer version of the video on Twitter, dismissing the viral claims of Shinde’s inebriety at the airport.

We also searched for other videos of Eknath Shinde reaching the Surat airport to leave for Guwahati and came across an NDTV video report. There too, Shinde appeared to speak normally.

An ANI video also shows Shinde reaching the Surat International Airport with the rebel MLAs where he was spotted getting down from the bus. There, too, we noticed nothing unusual that supported claims of him being drunk.

advertisement

#WATCH | Gujarat: Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde, with 34 party MLAs & 7 independent MLAs, who were staying at Le Meridien hotel in Surat reach Surat International Airport to leave for Guwahati, Assam. pic.twitter.com/YtWVJEo88n — ANI (@ANI) June 21, 2022

Therefore, we concluded that the videos of Eknath Shinde being allegedly drunk at the Surat airport were misleading.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena, Lucknow)