Quite often, we come across news reports of doctors being assaulted by patients’ relatives in some part of the country. Such incidents have only grown during the pandemic. The recent allopathy versus ayurveda debate has also seen angry netizens taking up sides.

Amid this, a screenshot of an apparent India Today report has gone viral on social media. The headline says, “WHO advised survey-group reveals the countries where doctors are most disrespected.” The brief intro below the headline says, “India tops the list in the survey. A group guided by WHO, based in Singapore conducted a survey on the countries where the doctors are the most disrespected.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the purported screenshot is fake. As of now, no such survey has been conducted which says Indians lead in mistreating their doctors.

AFWA probe

We did not find any news report on the India Today website about the so-called “WHO advised survey”, wherein India tops in disrespecting doctors. No archived version was found either.

The viral screenshot shows the mobile view of a report posted in the “Education Today” category of the “India Today” website. We compared the viral screenshot with a genuine screenshot of a report from this category.

A simple comparison of the two reveals that the viral screenshot is not genuine. In the viral screenshot, the headline ends with a full stop, which is an error. The fonts used in both screenshots are different. Also, the pattern of displaying categories in the genuine “Education Today” section is different from the one used in the viral screenshot.

In fact, we did not find any media report citing the purported study conducted by a Singapore-based group “guided” by WHO, as claimed in the viral screenshot. Had any such survey been conducted, it would’ve certainly been covered by the Indian media.

Contrary to the viral claim, a recent survey conducted by international research and data analytics firm YouGov found that along with scientists, doctors are one of the most respected professions worldwide. India was also among the 16 countries included in the survey.

We, however, found a study titled “Doctors on Status and Respect” published in British research website “Core”. One of the study’s major findings states that doctors feel they are disrespected both within and outside their profession. But it does not mention a country-wise classification on the basis of showing respect to doctors.

According to another study published in “The National Medical Journal of India”, over 75 per cent doctors in India have faced violence at work. However, the report adds that violence against medical practitioners is a global phenomenon.

WHO had conducted a study on Indian doctors in 2016, which revealed that around 57 per cent of “allopathic doctors” in India did not have medical qualification.

advertisement

Another study revealed that two-thirds of patients around the world feel disrespected by their physicians.

However, it can be concluded that the apparent screenshot with the “India Today” logo, which said India tops in disrespecting doctors, is morphed. As of now, no such survey has been conducted.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Man in viral post is not Rajesh Tiwari who ‘failed UPSC’, but a Bangladeshi influencer

ALSO READ: Fact Check: This is not the Azerbaijan President touching a woman in viral video