With the ongoing controversy over now-suspended BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma’s remarks on the Prophet Muhammad triggering a spate of trends and counter trends online, misinformation is getting a free reign on social media. One such post that is being widely shared in this context is the screengrab of an alleged tweet by England cricketer Moeen Ali in which he purportedly threatened to boycott IPL unless a public apology is issued over Sharma’s blasphemous remarks. Newschecker has found that the claim is false.

The image, shared by Twitter handle @KhanZoh85448446 had over 200 retweets and over 1,500 likes.

https://twitter.com/KhanZoh85448446/status/1534380011301609473?s=20&t=ADrH5QFwYceIzm0zsq9eOg

Several users also shared a graphic image of Moeen Ali with the quotation ascribed to him.

England Star Moeen Ali reacted on blasphemous remarks made by #nupursharma

Well done #MoeenAli pic.twitter.com/FM6jblQGZg — ShezZ Malik (@MalikShezz) June 7, 2022

Fact check/Verification

Newschecker began by analysing the viral tweet thoroughly and found that the twitter handle from which the tweet was allegedly shared, @Moeen_Ali18, seems unverified. On verifying the handle, which is now suspended, we found that the handle was made only recently, in May 2022. We also found that in the description, the handle clarified that it was not the official twitter account of the cricketer.

We further checked online to find out if the cricketer did have a verified Twitter handle or Instagram account, and found that he is on neither social media platforms.

We also reached out to the officials of the English Cricket Board to confirm if the cricketer had indeed made such a statement, to which the ECB clarified that the twitter account that shared the viral tweet was fake and that “Moeen Ali has no social media presence.”

Conclusion

A tweet from a fake handle of English cricketer Moeen Ali, threatening to not play in India and boycott IPL unless an public apology is offered over the recent remarks on Prophet Muhammad by BJP’s Nupur Sharma, is going viral on social media.

Result: Imposter content

Sources

Analysis of Twitter handle @Moeen_Ali18

Email correspondence with English Cricket Board

If you would like us to fact check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 ​or email us at ​checkthis@newschecker.in​. You can also visit the Contact Us​ page and fill the form.