It’s election season in West Bengal and Internet is full of claims and counterclaims about different political parties.

More recently, a picture of a stack of currency notes is circulating on social media with the claim that the money has been recovered from the house of a BJP leader in Bengal. Some police officers are also seen addressing a press conference.

advertisement

Several Facebook and Twitter users have shared the picture with a sarcastic caption in Hindi which translates to, “Money recovered from the house of a BJP leader in Bengal. He must have been trying to help the poor.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral picture is from November 2019 when Telangana police busted a fake currency racket and arrested five men from Khammam district. Fake notes worth over Rs 6 crore were seized. There has been no recent report of cash recovery from any BJP leader’s house in Bengal.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, here and here.

The incident

Using reverse image search, we found that the viral picture was published on several news websites such as “Telangana Today” and “The Times Of India” in November 2019.

The same incident, with similar pictures of policemen and the stack of notes, was also reported by “The Financial Express” and tweeted by news agency ANI around the same time.

Telangana: Khammam police today arrested five persons for cheating public in guise of exchanging Rs. 2,000 denomination currency notes and offering 20% commission.

320 bundles of Rs. 2000 denomination fake notes (around Rs 6.4 crores) seized. pic.twitter.com/ptulXGi1Qb — ANI (@ANI) November 2, 2019

As per these reports, Telangana police arrested five men who used to run a fake currency racket. Cops also seized 320 bundles of Rs 2,000 denomination fake notes worth Rs 6.4 crore.

The picture went viral last year too with the false claim that the notes were found in the car of an RSS worker in Gujarat. “Aaj Tak” had then debunked the misinformation which can be read here.