An image showing a Hindu woman with injury marks on her face is viral on social media with the claim that she was subjected to domestic violence by her Muslim husband.

The caption to one such image uploaded on Facebook in the Hindi language translates into English as, “This woman from Assam left her husband and younger daughter to marry a jihadi Zakir Hussain and become Rubia! Now, Hussain is painting her face with injuries.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. The woman in the image is former Congress MLA from Assam, Rumi Nath. The photo in the claim dates back to 2012 when Nath was attacked by a mob and is not linked to domestic violence.

The archived versions of the post can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Rumi Nath, who was twice the member of Assam Legislative assembly representing the Borkhola constituency is seen along with her second husband Jakie Zakir in the viral image.

With the help of reverse image search, we found similar images of injured Rumi carried in multiple media reports in 2012.

According to a report in India Today published on July 5, 2012, the incident took place on June 29, 2012. A mob of around 100 people barged into a Hotel in Karimganj district in Assam, where Rumi and her husband Zakir were staying and thrashed the couple.

As per the report, police had arrested five people for beating up the couple.

In a video interview with India Today, Rumi also clarified that the attack on her had no communal motive but was rather a “political conspiracy”.

The image of Rumi used in the viral posts was also pulled out from this interview.

Some reports from 2012 also mentioned how the assault on Rumi led to violent protests and a bandh in the Barak Valley in South Assam.

As per an NDTV report on the incident, Rumi married Zakir, a Muslim, and converted to Islam a month before the incident took place. She allegedly did not divorce her first husband, a Hindu, with whom she had a two-year-old daughter. This led let to outrage among the public.

Rumi Nath, an MBBS doctor by profession was first elected to the Assam Assembly in 2006 on a BJP ticket. She later moved to the Congress and won the Borkhola Assembly seat a second time during the 2011 elections.

It is true that Rumi converted to Islam to marry Zakir. However, it is also clear from the media reports that the viral image is from 2012 when Rumi was assaulted by a mob and is not related to domestic abuse by her Muslim husband.