Some social media users have been working overtime to churn out several videos on terrorism and pass them off as the recent Pulwama attack, where at least 40 CRPF jawans died in an explosion.

One such video of a blast at a highway is going viral on social media with the claim that it is footage of the Pulwama attack. India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that this was a 12-year-old video from Baghdad and not from the recent Pulwama terror attack.

advertisement

The Facebook page 'Rajsthani Media' posted this video with a caption that reads, "CCTV video from Pulwama terror attack (Pulwama me aatankwadi hamle ke CCTV video)."

Click here to watch the video

In the 29-second video, a few vehicles can be seen on the road. People have been claiming that the video was CCTV footage of the Pulwama attack from Thursday, which left the nation in deep sorrow.

By the time this story was filed, the video had already received thousands of views and shared nearly two hundred times on Facebook.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The video has also been shared on Twitter and other social media platforms.

When we reverse searched the video we found the original video on YouTube that was published on March 5, 2008. The original video was 58 seconds long (watch the video below) and had a time and date stamp on the top which reads "9/2/2007 (September 2, 2007) 3:54:52 PM".

We also found stills from the same video on Reddit. A user named 'WhiteSix' claimed the video was from Baghdad where a "vehicle-borne improvised explosive device" (VBIED) was detonated outside Camp Taji. Another user, Maninorbit, confirmed the same in the video and claimed to be present at Camp Taji at the time of the attack.

When we searched about the blast at Camp Taji in 2007 on the Internet, we found media reports that mentioned terror attacks took place at that time in Iraq.

Among these, Camp Taji attack was the one which killed three people and injured seven. The archived version of one such report can be seen here.

India Today confirmed that the viral video is not from Pulwama but from Baghdad when a VBIED blast took place outside Camp Taji in 2007.