The White House has come under attack on social media for allegedly capitalising on the Covid-19 pandemic by selling commemorative coins for $100. Netizens have accused the iconic residence and office of the United States President of profiting through these coins sold via the “White House gift shop”.

Sharing pictures of the commemorative coins on Facebook and Twitter, social media users claim, “WOULD you believe, the White House gift shop is selling a commemorative Covid-19 coin for 100 dollars? Typical 45, anything for a buck even if it cost 60,000+ lives”.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The White House has not released any commemorative coronavirus coin. A private company called “White House Gift Shop” is selling the coins and these are not sanctioned by the office of the US President.Several Facebook users have shared similar posts accusing the White House.

Most users, to support their claim, have shared articles by “TMZ”, “LGBTQ Nation” and “AJC”, which have referred to the website “whitehousegiftshop.com”.

These articles have clearly mentioned that the “White House Gift Shop” is a private company. But people on social media have misunderstood and concluded that the US government is selling commemorative coronavirus coins.

International fact-check organisation “Snopes” had reached out to Anthony Giannini, the owner of “White House Gift Shop”, who confirmed that the “White House is not selling coronavirus coins” and the company “is not affiliated with The White House, nor is The White House involved in any of our decisions, products, or operations”.

Although the website had an early connection with the White House during the Truman administration, but now it is not affiliated with the US President or the government or the White House.

Official commemorative coins are produced by the United States Mint. As per its official website, there is no such plan by the US government to release any commemorative coin for coronavirus victims.

Therefore, it is clear that the White House Gift Shop, which is selling commemorative coronavirus coins, is a private company and has no relation with the White House or the US government.