Spread the truth:

A set of photos of a man being held upside down by police in a police station is viral claimed to be today’s, of Arnab Goswami, Republic being tortured by Mumbai Police.

A Twitter handle by the name “The Himalayan Doctor” tweeted –

“KARMA is THERE Just wait for the day BJP comes to power in Maharashtra I think many haramkhors,kamras and penguins will face the music for sure One may not agree with the way # ArnabGoswami put facts but treating him under vendetta in democracy is threatening # HinduWithRepublic“

KARMA is THERE Just wait for the day BJP comes to power in Maharashtra

I think many haramkhors,kamras and penguins will face the music for sure

One may not agree with the way #ArnabGoswami put facts but treating him under vendetta in democracy is threatening#HinduWithRepublic pic.twitter.com/0ohWzgnll7 — The Himalayan Doctor 🚩 (@manhas_bhanu) November 4, 2020

archive

BJP Leader and spokesperson Gaurav Goel tweeted the images with a question about the authenticity which has till now bee retweetd by approx 2500 people

Can't believe he is #ArnabGoswami

If it's real…..Maharashtra Govt has asked for the dooms day. I m terribly Perturbed.#महाराष्ट्र_सरकार_बरखास्त_करो @TajinderBagga pic.twitter.com/80l4iwJGq1 — Gaurav Goel (@goelgauravbjp) November 4, 2020

archive

Shocked by this pic showing Arnab goswami being tortured by Mumbai police. pic.twitter.com/MGYfCTLunp — Balaram (@Balaram05970544) November 4, 2020

Truth

The photo is from Jan 20, Deoria district, Uttar Pradesh. Not related to Arnab Goswami’s arrest

The News18 reported in Jan 20

Legs Held Up, Shoe on Face, Belt Buckle Beating: On Cam, UP Police’s Punishment for ‘Phone Thief’

Lucknow: A shocking video of three policemen brutally assaulting a man inside a police station in Uttar Pradesh’s Deoria district recently surfaced, following which the cops were suspended and an FIR ordered against them on Friday.

The video, which has gone viral on social media, shows the policemen beating the man while holding up his legs. An officer also put his shoe on the face of the accused. Despite repeated pleas of mercy, the policemen kept thrashing him ruthlessly.

Taking cognizance of the incident, Deoria Superintendent of Police suspended the three cops who were seen in the clip and ordered an FIR against them. The SP also sent the accused for medical check up.

“The three cops have been suspended. FIR is being registered against them. The man has been sent for medical examination,” SP Shripati Mishra said.

Vishweshwar Tiwari, a resident of Mahen village under Madanpur Police Station, told the police around noon on January 8 that Sumit Goswami had stolen his mobile phone. Afterwards, the accused was caught and brought to the police station where he was beaten mercilessly without the police having properly investigated the case.

A person present on the premises of the police station captured the incident on his/her mobile phone after which it went viral.

The following tweet has the complete video clip

This is the @deoriapolice , viciously assaulting a young man accused of mobile theft by his neighbour , inside a police station. One cop tries to smash the man's face with his boot , the man is hit multiple times with a belt as other cops pin him down . Three cops suspended … pic.twitter.com/hzDplXrDv0 — Alok Pandey (@alok_pandey) January 10, 2020

Related