This was only the second time that Italy won the Euro Cup, defeating England in a nail-biting penalty finish. Back home, thousands of Italians poured on to the streets, waving flags, singing songs, playing music and bursting crackers.

One such video claimed to be of the celebrations in Italy shows a long series of firecrackers being burnt on a road as people alongside film the show. Many social media users were critical of the video, alleging that certain people only related pollution to Diwali.

advertisement

“Victory celebration in Italy. Please note that pollution due to fire crackers happens only in India during Diwali,” reads the caption of one such Twitter post.

*Victory celebration in Italy*. .



_*Please note that pollution due to fire crackers happens only in India during Diwali.*_

CC: @drharshvardhan and all LeLi gang members pic.twitter.com/Ybl5MPa6NU — Tapan (@TapanP1957) July 13, 2021

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video is three months old and from a religious festival in Taiwan.

AFWA investigation

With the help of reverse search, we found that some users posted the video in April this year and wrote “Baishatun Mazu” in Chinese. Using related keywords in Chinese, AFWA found a YouTube video of Taiwan news channel “SETN” showing visuals similar to the viral video. This YouTube video was uploaded on April 16, 2021. The title of the video says it is a 500-metre-long pathway of crackers being burnt to welcome Baishatun Mazu.

Baishatun Mazu refers to a pilgrimage held annually in Taiwan for the sea goddess Matsu. As per Taiwan daily “Taipei Times” the Baishatun Mazu pilgrimage is one of the largest religious processions in Taiwan that starts every year from Baishatun in Miaoli County.

The Gong Tian temple of Baishatun organises the procession for the sea goddess Matsu, which covers a distance of about 400 km to reach another temple and back. About 78,000 people had signed up to participate in this year’s procession, says the report.

A volunteer can also be seen in the video wearing a jacket with “Baishatun Gongtian Temple” written on it in Chinese.

Therefore, it is evident that a three-month-old video from Taiwan has been passed off as Euro Cup victory celebrations in Italy. However, fireworks were used in Italy too during the celebrations.