Social media is flooded with misinformation related to the fatalities and

side-effects suspected to be linked to COVID-19 vaccines. Amid this, several posts on social media claims that Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has said in an interview to CNBC that 7 lakh people will face death or disability after taking the vaccines. This message is going viral in form of articles as well as posts on social media. According to the users, “In an interview with CNBC, Bill Gates says that for every 10,000 people, permanent vaccination damage such as permanent disabilities and death would occur and he expects 700,000 victims.”

The caption of the post mentions as “Oh but it’s ok, nothing to be worried about…”In his rush to develop one, two, or even seven different vaccines for the Wuhan coronavirus (COVID-19), billionaire software tycoon Bill Gates openly admitted that upwards of 700,000 people could become injured or die from these jabs.”

The post also mentions an article whose headline reads as “Bill Gates Admit: 700,000 People will be harmed or die due to Coronavirus Vaccines”

Facebook Post | Archive Link | Archive Link



Fact Check–

Fact Crescendo found that Bill Gates had actually said “If we have one in 10,000 side-effects, that’s way more 700,000 people who will suffer from that”. He never said that the side effects would kill or permanently damage people.

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google to find Bill Gates interview with CNBC to listen to what Bill Gates has said in his interview. We found that in the 26-minute interview given to CNBC news channel in 9th April 2020, Bill Gates speaking about the side effects of the COVID-19 Vaccine. Upon hearing the entire interview, we could not find any part where he mentions that the vaccine would kill or permanently disable 700,000 people in the world.

Bill Gates can be heard talking about the possible magnitude of side-effects while vaccinating nearly 7 billion people worldwide. He explains that side-effects to even one in 10,000 people would mean 7 lakh people could be affected. Bill Gates says “If we have one in 10,000 side-effects, that’s way more 700,000 people who will suffer from that,”.

Later he also spoke about the efficiency of the vaccine in older people, which he considered to be a huge challenge.

Later we ran a keyword search on Google to find out about the side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine. According to the World Health Organization and the United States national public health institute Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, COVID-19 vaccines also have some side-effects, but they should go away in a few days. It further mentions that vaccine side-effects are normal signs that our body is building protection against the virus.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found that the above-mentioned post is False. Bill Gates had said that 7 lakh people would suffer from side-effects due to the COVID-19 vaccines. He never said the side-effects could be fatal and cause permanent disability or death.