Amidst devastating footage from West Bengal after the super cyclone struck the state another video showing a natural calamity is doing rounds on social media. A video of a massive landslide is viral on social media claiming that it shows a landslide that took place in Shillong (Meghalaya).

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by using a simple keyword search on YouTube which led us to a verified news report published by Metro Tv News on 10th April 2020. According to this video the viral video shows a landslide in the settlements of Chiangjur & Sukanagara in Indonesia. The incident occurred on 9th April 2020.

We also came across another video published on 9th April 2020 by the Central Java Tribune which says that this video is from Cianjur, Indonesia. According to the BPBD Disaster officer in Cianjur 2 the landslide caused the residents to be buried under it. The description also mentions how the localites were busy recording the video instead of warning the man on the vehicle.

Other than this we also came across a clarification by the official Twitter account of the Meghalaya Police stating that this video is not from Shillong, Meghalaya. The Tweet mentions that “A video clip of a Landslide which is being circulated on social media is from settlements of Chiangjur & Sukanagara in Indonesia, NOT from National Highway of Meghalaya. We request citizens not to share or circulate the video clip with false content or caption.”

#FakeNewsAlert



A video clip of a Landslide which is being circulated on social media is from settlements of Chiangjur & Sukanagara in Indonesia, NOT from National Highway of Meghalaya.



We request citizens not to share or circulate the video clip with false content or caption. pic.twitter.com/evQ3UvZm0F — Meghalaya Police (@MeghalayaPolice) May 21, 2020

Archive Link

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above-mentioned video to be False. The video is originally from the settlements in Cianjur in Indonesia and not from Shillong, Meghalaya.