Fears of a return to medieval rule lurk in everybody’s minds as the Taliban took control of Afghanistan. Amid this, a video showing women apparently being sold on an open street has gone viral with the claim that Afghan women are being auctioned as sex slaves.

The viral video, posted by several Twitter and Facebook users, shows chained burqa-clad women held in captivity by a few men in Arabic attire. One of the men is seen shouting on a microphone, inviting people to buy “these Kurdish women”.

advertisement

The Facebook caption in Hindi translates to, “How time changes! Once upon a time, these Afghans used to sell Hindu women for two dinars. Now, their own women are being auctioned.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is of a mock “Islamic State sex slave market” in London. The stunt was performed in 2014 by actors of “Compassion 4 Kurdistan”, a group of Kurdish activists who were trying to raise awareness regarding ISIS actions in Iraq.

Decoding the video

We watched the video carefully and several elements raised suspicion about the veracity of the claim. One can find double-decker buses and a busy city life around the spot where the incident is taking place. At one point, we noticed photographers taking pictures and people watching curiously as to what was going on.

With the help of reverse image search, we found the same video uploaded on YouTube in 2017 with the title “auctioning women on the street of London”.

Taking this as a clue and with the help keyword search, we found an article in BBC with a similar video. As per the article, this was a staged performance by some Kurdish activists and actors on the streets of London in 2014.

The controversial stunt was performed on October 14, 2014, outside Downing Street and the Houses of Parliament to shock Londoners and convey to them the actions and misrule carried out by ISIS in Iraq. The actors tried to depict the “Islamic State sex slave market” on the streets of London.

They had also uploaded the video on YouTube, but the original video is not available now.

Comparing the viral video with the BBC video we can see the same man with olive-coloured jacket and head gear and with a microphone in hand.

Grab from viral video

“Huffington Post” published an article on the same event in 2014 with the same pictures. According to several international news reports published in 2014, ISIS had justified kidnapping of women as sex slaves citing Islamic theology.

advertisement

Therefore, it is confirmed that the viral video is a mock show and not a real video of women being sold as sex slaves in Afghanistan.

ALSO READ: What just happened in Afghanistan? | Decoded

LONG READ: WHO ARE THE TALIBAN?