Amid tensions between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, a video of some soldiers lying wounded on the ground is going viral on social media with the claim that they were injured in the clash with Chinese troops in Galwan valley.

A bloody late-night face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan valley on June 15 had led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers and injuries to 76. The Chinese side also suffered an unconfirmed number of fatalities.

advertisement

Facebook page “I love my kashmir” shared the viral video on June 20 with the caption: “viral video from Ladakh Galwan valley Indian Army Thrashed by Chinese Army on LAC #KASHMIR”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is old and unrelated. The soldiers seen in the video belong to Border Security Force (BSF) and they were injured in a bus accident in Meghalaya last year.

The 1-minute-41-second video shows some soldiers lying on the ground, crying in pain. A voice of a person speaking in Hindi can also be heard. This person is trying to comfort the soldiers saying, “You are a soldier, you shouldn’t panic”, “Don’t worry, everything will be all right” and “The ambulance is on its way. You will be fine”.

Till the filing of this story, the video was viewed almost 2 lakh times and shared over 4,000 times. The archived version can be seen here (http://archive.is/zCONX).

AFWA probe

Upon conducting a reverse image search of the video key frames, we found that a longer (2-minute-59-second) version of the same video was shared on the YouTube channel of “Nation Bharatvarsh” on November 1, 2019. The Hindi caption along with the video translates to, “Meghalaya: Bus carrying 20 BSF jawans fell in a deep gorge. One civilian helper died on the spot. The jawans were returning to their base in Silchar from Jagiroad via Meghalaya.”

With this information, we did a keyword search on Google and found several news reports which confirmed that the video is indeed related to a bus accident involving BSF jawans in Meghalaya last year. Several news websites had covered the incident then.

Some news websites had published an image of the accident taken from a different angle.

Pakistan connect

The video went viral last year too when some Pakistani social media users claimed it was an act of revenge by their army. These users claimed that the Pakistani army blew up a bus full of Indian soldiers after ceasefire violations by the Indian Army. One such social media post can be viewed here.

advertisement

This claim was then bunked by “The Times of India”.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video is not related to the ongoing tension along the LAC in Ladakh between Indian and Chinese troops. It was an accident involving a bus carrying BSF jawans in Meghalaya last year.

(With inputs from Jyoti Dwivedi)