The flood situation remains grim in many parts of Telangana. Against this backdrop, a video showing people being evacuated from a flooded river is widely shared on social media claiming that a special chopper is rescuing people stuck amid the Telangana floods.

The video is shared on Facebook with a caption: “WATCH — Dramatic rescue operation on camera! A special chopper rescues two people stuck in Godavari river in Telangana”

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

Using the InVid Tool, we extracted keyframes from the viral video and performed a Reverse Image Search. The search directed us to a news report, published by NDTV on November 20, 2021, that carried a similar video.

The article reads: “In scenes that could easily be mistaken for an action blockbuster, the Indian Air Force conducted a daring rescue operation yesterday to save the lives of 10 people who were stranded after heavy rainfall in Andhra Pradesh.”

The video was also uploaded on NDTV’s YouTube page. “The rescue was a stunning display of bravery as rain fury unfolds in Andhra Pradesh, where 17 people have been reported dead and over 100 are missing,” says NDTV.

We searched further and found a news article published by Kalinga TV that reported the same incident in November 2021, stating: “At least 12 people were killed and 18 others missing after three buses of Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) were stuck in floods triggered by heavy rains in Kadapa district on Friday.”

The article embedded tweets published by the Indian Air Force (IAF) on November 19, 2021, that carried similar visuals of the rescue operation. The text reads: “Today, @IAF_MCC Mi-17 helicopter evacuated ten people stuck in the rising waters of Chitravati river in Ananthapur district, Andhra Pradesh, in difficult weather conditions.”

#HADROps#AndhraFlood Today, @IAF_MCC Mi-17 heptr evacuated ten people stuck in the rising waters of Chitravati river in Ananthapur district, Andhra Pradesh, in difficult weather conditions. pic.twitter.com/CEsG9EOekC — Indian Air Force (@IAF_MCC) November 19, 2021

Many YouTube channels had also carried the same video on November 20, 2021, with the description: “Kadapa Annamaya project collapsed, rescue by helicopter, paramilitary reached, effected 12 villages”

Thus, it is confirmed that an old video from Andhra Pradesh is being falsely linked to the recent floods in Telangana.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news