A short clip of fire and smoke billowing in the distance and people lying injured on the ground is circulating on social media with the claim that a sweet shop in Mangalore went up in flames due to a blast caused by 10 cylinders. The claim further says that 24 people were killed in the incident and another 30-40 injured.

advertisement

Confusion over the post generated after the place of incidence was mentioned as Mangalore, which is a city in Karnataka. However, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the blast took place at a small town called Manglaur Riyasat in Uttarakhand's Haridwar district.

Also, till the filing of this story, not 24 but one person had succumbed to injuries, while the others are recuperating.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

We found several social media handles from Karnataka commenting under the viral claims that no such incident took place in Mangalore. Also, we could not find any recent report of a cylinder blast in the city. India Today's Karnataka bureau further confirmed to us that no such incident was reported from Mangalore recently.

However, we found news reports of a cylinder blast on November 7 at a sweet shop in Manglaur near Roorkee.

We also found a video report of the incident on the YouTube channel of TV9 Bharatvarsh with visuals similar to the ones in the viral clip. The Hindi caption to the video translates to, "Dehradun: 11 injured in gas cylinder blast at sweet shop in Roorkee".

Quoting the Roorkee Civil Hospital Superintendent, a November 8 report by

"The Times of India" said 13 people were injured in a gas cylinder blast in the basement of a sweet shop in Manglaur market.

On November 9, "The Times of India" reported the death of a 30-year-old man who sustained injuries in the incident. However, the report had no mention of any more fatalities.

We could not find any other credible media report confirming more deaths due to the incident. AFWA then reached out to Roorkee circle officer Chandan Singh, who confirmed that till November 12, one person had succumbed.

"The viral claim of 24 deaths is false. Some 13 people were taken to hospitals after the explosion and one person succumbed to injuries. The rest are recuperating in different hospitals. We have registered a case against the sweet shop owner. A magisterial probe has also been ordered," the officer said.

advertisement

India Today's Roorkee correspondent corroborated the information.

Edited video

We also found that the first one-minute footage in the viral video showing a huge explosion is more than two years old from a fire incident in an LPG godown in Patna, Bihar. No one was injured in the incident.

Below is the original video uploaded on the official YouTube page of "India Today Social" on June 9, 2018.

Therefore, it is clear that the gas cylinder blast took place in Haridwar's Manglaur, resulting in the death of one person as of November 12.