Spread the truth:

(Read till the end.)

With great power comes great responsibility – Uncle Ben (Spider-Man ke Chacha ji)

Once you are known to the masses, you achieve the power of people’s faith, belief in you, which makes you responsible. Whoever you are, a politician, a critic, a journalist, an actor, a sportsman, an artist, if you are well known, people look up to you for your work, for credible information, so what you post is news for many.

But in past, there had been many prominent personalities, who goofed-up or did intentional ones.

“Fake News” term is quite popular but it has many parts for e.g.

Misinformation – A mistake made or passed on.

Disinformation – A wrong info created and passed on intentionally.

Fake News also can be divided in various genres like communal hatred, character assassination, political, pranks, jokes, not harmful etc. The list below contains all these sorts.

Few of such Faux Pas has been listed below where you can decide if these are Misinformation or Disinformation

While there had been a number of personalities caught with #FakeNews, featured below are the ones debunked by SMHoaxSlayer.

MadhuPurnima Kishwar

Factarian, Averse to all Isms. Maulana Azad National Professor, ICSSR. Founder human rights organisation MANUSHI



She tweeted a 2 year old video of Sambhal, Uttar Pradesh, falsely claiming to be post 11th December 2018 (Congress victory celebration) from Rajasthan, Pakistan Zindabad Slogan was also not anywhere in the video as she claimed. Infact with following other fakes from her, you may find she was hearing “Pakistan Zindabad” in many videos.

When debunked, she deleted it but defended with another one where she claimed Congress supporters were shouting “Pakistan Zindabad” which too was false.

They were actually shouting “Bhati Sa Zindabaad” and not Pakistan Zindabad which she wanted to hear.



India Today Fact Check found that the workers were shouting the name of a local Congress candidate, Narayan Singh Bhati, and not pro-Pakistan slogans. In Rajasthan, “Sa” is used as respect like elder brother.

Next, Congress – 2nd Most corrupt party in the world.

She tweeted a link of a website bbcnewshub which is a fake/clickbait website, posts fake/sensational articles and earn from traffic. It is not related to BBC at all. This was debunked last year also. This same Fake website also posted a fake article claiming our PM Modi to be 7th most corrupt PM in the word which was also debunked by SMHoaxSlayer.

3 years ago, she asked a question tweeting the photo below if the weapons were found in a Mosque. Although the news was true but, the weapons were being sold in a Hotel on Highway openly.

Three years ago again, she tweeted a photo where a man folded a road like a blanket claiming to be low quality road construction in Bihar, alleging Bihar government for corruption. The photo is actually from Bangladesh

A 2016 photo from IIIT Hyderabad was quoted as BHU IIT which showed students wearing Indian culture clothing in their convocation claiming effect of government. This way of wearing Indian attire started in year 2013.

Last January, people from Karni Sena created a chaos, violence against release of movie – Padmavati, renamed to Padmavat after this protest. A shocking incident disturbed many, stone pelting on a school bus carrying children.

Madhu Kishwar said 5 Muslim men were arrested who pelted the stone, added a clause in the end “if the above news is true”. Why or how will someone retweet a question ? This tweet was retweeted more than 3000 times. Gururam Police officially clarified that no Muslim boy was detained, following which she deleted the tweet as usual.

Ex-Bishop Franco Mulakkal was accused of rape and was arrested. Madhu Kishwar tweeted the image below claiming it “Awesome” but in fact the image was fake/edited created by a website breakyournews.com, which is also on the image.

Digvijay Singh

Ex General Secretary of All India Congress Committee , Ex CM Madhya Pradesh Ex President MPCC and Member Rajya Sabha

Digvijay Singh tweeted the image below targeting Yogi Aditya Nath, UP CM claiming the ambulances in his state are rusting while people had to carry their relatives on handcarts.

The photo was actually from Karnataka, not UP. Digvijay Singh hasn’t yet deleted the tweet though.

Last year he used a Rawalpindi, Pakistan’s 2016 photo claiming Bhopal’s Bridge’s low quality alleging Madhya Pradesh Gov. He specifically put this on a BJP minister.

Arvind Kejriwal

Chief Minister, Delhi, Aam Aadmi Party



Arvind Kejriwal retweeted a tweet in which people were beating a politician. The tweet claimed common people are beating BJP minsiters on completion of their 4 years of rule.

Actually all points were false, you can read in the article below –

In 2016, after demonetization, Kejriwal quoted a tweet by Abhishek Mishra, who currently is in jail, he also is claimed to be running a fake news mongering website ‘viralininia’. Actually the man entered the bank to steal but hanged himself when he realized that Police has surrounded the bank and he won’t be able to escape.

The tweet had an image of a hanging man i.e. suicide in a bank. The text said he killed himself as he was unable to withdraw money for 4 days in Satna. Kejriwal added “Modi Ji, look at this. At least now have pity on citizens. why do think of people as your enemy”

Although Abhishek deleted his tweet but not Kejriwal

मोदी जी, ये देखिए। अब तो इस देश के लोगों पे रहम कीजिए। आख़िर क्या दुश्मनी है आपकी जनता से। ग़रीब की इतनी हाय मत लीजिए। https://t.co/26FPOwYTwo — Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) November 20, 2016

Puneet Sharma

स्वंयसेवक | Honored to be followed by PM ji & ji | मम दीक्षा हिन्दू रक्षा | मम मंत्र समानता

Puneet Sharma tweeted few images in Feb 2018 claiming to be new Airport like Bus Station in Vadodara made by PM Modi.

This actually was a mixture of images – old photo, a hospital’s photo, digitally created images. Read complete detail in the article below –

He tweeted a fake image, which actually was also based on a fake website named bbcnewshub claiming Congress as 4th most corrupt party in the word with BBC logo on it. BBC called it off, that it has nothing to do with BBC. This Fake News was viral again recently too.

3 years ago, he tweeted an image claiming Shiv Linga and Nandi Ji found on Rasa, oldest mosque in Arab.

These were wrong, you can read details in the article below –

Two years ago, he tweeted a disturbing video in which a man is stabbing another repeatedly with a knife or some sharp object. He wrote that this is happening in Kerala, the victims are a RSS and BJP Workers. Even after seeing this, if a Hindu’s blood doesn’t boil, it must be water.

The Video was actually from Mexico, not Kerala. Read below for details –

Shashi Tharoor

MP for Thiruvananthapuram. Author of 18 books. Former Minister of State,Govt.of India. Former Under Secretary General, United Nations.



Shashi Tharoor Tweeted a painting’s photo along with, Swapna Augustine who doesn’t have hands and paint with legs. Actually the painting was by Oleg Shupliak from Ukraine who draw such optical illusion paintings.

Gaurav Pradhan

# DataScience, # DigitalTransformation, # SMAC Strategist, Global Top 100CIO, Gartner Top10 CIO SA, Founder Golfer, 4×4, Pilot

Gaurav Pradhan tweeted a video in which two women in burqa are fighting on a signal, he wrote this happened just after women were allowed to drive in Arab. Saudi Arabia passed a law allowing women to drive on 24th June 2018. Tarek Fatah also tweeted the same.

Actually, the video is 4 years old. It was uploaded on YouTube in 2015

A Year ago, Jan 2018, he tweeted an image with photo of actor Farhan Akhtar and a statement claiming to have been made by him. The image had a logo of Post Card website which has itself posted Fake News few times.

On being called out fake by Farhan Akhtar, Gaurav Pradhan deleted his tweet accepting being wrong and questioning his parents.

Two years ago he tweeted a photo of a stamp with our PM Modi JI’s photo which was genuine indeed but alongwith he wrote Turkey issued this declaring Modi Ji’s as world’s greatest leader.

Actually PM participated in G20 summit held in Turkey and so did leaders of other countries as well. Turkey issued stamps for all of the leaders together who participated as a sense of respect.

In Aug 2017, he tweeted a photoshopped image of Front page advertisement with Arvind Kejriwal’s face by Aam Aadmi Party. When corrected by SMHoaxSlayer, he accepted and deleted his tweet.

Pawan Durani

Techie , Journalist , Blogger , Activist , Columnist .. DO YOU ACTUALLY BELIEVE IT ? Don’t ! Forced out of my home of 5000 years ! Yes, I am a Kashmiri Pandit – Source

Last year he tweeted a photo in which children are playing on a newly laid road, even opened their footwear off the road. He praised PM Modi Ji for this work.

Actually, the photo was from Indonesia, he deleted the tweet after 2000 + retweets.

Pawan Durani tweeted a video which said Rahul changed it’s color on waiving Farmers’ loan just as they won the elections. This was a trimmed video. Same was also tweeted by Satish Upadhyay. Check the article below for complete details –

Pritish Nandy

Poet. Journalist. Maker of films. Former Parliamentarian. Genesis International Humanitarian Award US Bangladesh Liberation War Award Founder People for Animals

He tweeted an old and smaller Sardar Patel’s statue as Statue of Unity. Check the article below for complete details –

Avinash Das

Writer-Director: Anaarkali Of Aarah

Avinash tweeted a photo which looked like a newspaper article, which said “Yogi Adityanath made an irresponsible statement, said our job is to save cows, not girls” He wrote should this man be slapped with shoes or not ?

The line was actually from a satire website. UP CM never made any such statement.

Harsh Goenka

Chairman – RPG Enterprises. Loves people, food, sports, art.

Harsh Goenka tweeted a video in which Smriti Irani is dancing with Hasimrat Kaur Badal claiming they are dancing to the song Ghoomar, a song from Movie Padmavat.

The Video was actually from 2015, 3 years old.

Anupam Kher

Actor/Teacher/MotivationalSpeaker/UN Ambassador

Anupam Kher tweeted a video in which someone is drawing a woman’s face on coffee using cream claiming someone did this in Istanbul for Sridevi, after she died.

This video actually is from Durban, South Africa, made by an International Coffee chain – Gloria Jeans Cafe. posted last year dedicated to Women’s Day.

Shobha De

Journalist, columnist, social commentator, opinion-shaper and author of 20 books.

Shobha De tweeted a certificate looking image claiming Gorakhpur as First smartest city on India which was called off by UNESCO officially

Randeep Singh Surjewala

MLA | In-charge, Communications, Indian National Congress. Permanent Invitee Member, Congress Working Committee.

He tweeted a video in which Vasundra Raje is heard saying that confuse people so much so they don’t get time to ask you the real questions, i.e about employment, farmers, infrastructure etc.

Actually this was a trimmed video, in complete video she was heard saying that Congress said this.

Vinod Chavda

Member of Parliament (Kachchh) & Advocate

He tweeted a set of photos claiming to be of a 1st Temple in Abu Dhabhi which was to be opened by PM Modi.

Land has been allotted for temple in Abu Dhabhi and the year of completion is said to by 2020. The images used are from New Jersey and Paris

Gaurav Pandhi, Pawan Khera, Shehla Rashid



Gaurav Pandhi – Political Analyst Support Indian National Congress Views & Opinions are personal Instagram & Snapchat: gaurav.pandhi

Pawan Khera – National Spokesman – Indian National Congress, Convenor – Publicity Committee of INC for Elections 2019. Philosophy, Global politics, History, Music, Poetry

Shehla Rashid – Activist.

These all tweeted that PM Modi ji, in a speech said 7 Lakh villages in Karnataka, while he actually said 7 Lakh homes.

Jignesh Mevani

Member representing Vadgam constituency in Gujarat Legislative Assembly

He tweeted a set of two photos, one from the movie “Oh My God” and other from real life comparing both using sarcasm, But the lady, Shefali Vaidya, BJP Supporter in real life photo was added digitally and was not real. He deleted the tweet later and apologized.

He tweeted that PM Modi ji who always resisted white skull cap, finally wore in Indore.

The image was photoshopped with cap added digitally.

Sanjay Singh

Sanjay Singh, current Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament from the Aam Aadmi Party

He tweeted a photo of a crying woman, claiming her to be blind and widow of a martyr.

She was not blind and was sister of the martyr.

Jarnail Singh

MLA Tilak Nagar, Volunteer Aap, Chairman of DDC(W), Member of SDMC, Chairman of GGS Hospital, VP AAP Delhi, Co Convener Aap Overseas, Chairman WAPTEMA, Business

Jarnail Singh tweeted a video claiming Sikhs are being tortured in BJP ruled Assam. Actually it was a just one incidence when mob beat up a holy man thinking they are abducting children.

Prakash Raj

Actor

Prakash Raj posted a set of 4 photos claiming these to be from a protest against PM Modi in UK while all these photos were either from different place or different time.

Paresh Rawal

THE ACTOR, Padma Shri & PARLIAMENTARIAN of INDIA

Paresh Rawal tweeted a fake/digitally created image he claimed as a screenshot of Rahul Gandhi’s tweet.

He tweeted that a Major who died in Taj Terror attacks was not given a salute of 21 guns, which when proven wrong defended claiming he wrote “not” by mistake. The wrong tweet had thousands of retweets and still not deleted.

He tweeted a fake quote attributed to Late Dr Abdul Kalam, accepted later that he didn’t know if it was true.

Kapil Mishra

MLA representing Karawal Nagar constituency in the Sixth Legislative Assembly of Delhi

Kapil Mishra used a photoshoot/staged photo claiming as real during Sabrimala Temple issue.

Kamal Nath

Chief Minister Of Madhya Pradesh | Lok Sabha Member, Chhindwara (MP) | Gen Secretary | President

Kamal Nath official handle tweeted a photo from Bangladesh claiming to be of Madhya Pradesh, alleging Mama ji i.e. Shivraj Chauhan for corruption

Tarek Fatah

Author, ‘Tragic Illusion of an Islamic State’ (Wiley). ‘The Jew is Not My Enemy’ (McClelland). Fellow, Middle East Forum. Columnist, Toronto Sun.

Tarek Fatah tweeted a photoshopped/edited video which showed a Muslim teacher teaching students why Islam is superior than Hinduism while on the contrary he was actually teaching Sanskrit.

Last year UAE allowed women to drive vehicles. Tarek Fatah tweeted a video claiming two ladies were fighting on a traffic signal just after applying this rule while this video was few years old.

Kiren Rijju

Minister of State for Home, India. Lok Sabha MP from Arunachal Pradesh

Kiren RIjju tweeted a small video showing a small kid playing football relating it to be a result of PM Modi Ji’s work while actually the video was from Brazil, not India

Dr. J Aslam Bhasha

Chairman – Minority Department Tamil Nadu Congress Committee | AICC Member | National Chairman Shri | Advocate

Dr. J Aslam tweeted a photo showing a girl pulling a rickshaw with an old man sitting in it claiming the girl is daughter of the rickshaw puller and topped IAS. In fact the girl was merely a traveler and just pulled the rickshaw for photo and was not related to him.

Kavita Krishnan

Secretary, AIPWA and Polit Bureau member, CPI(ML), editor, Liberation, and formerly a student activist with the AISA and former Jt Secy, JNUSU.

She tweeted a photo of an old man holding a stone in hand while a cop aiming a gun on him, she claimed this photo from farmers’ protest last year. This photo actually was from a Jat protest in year 2013.

Imam Tawhedi

An Australian Muslim Scholar, Publicly Ordained Islamic Authority, Thinker, Educator, Speaker, and one of the main leading voices in the global movement of Islamic reform

Imam tweeted a video showing a man beating a nude man while others were watching, he claimed that islamist terrorists were beating a naga sadhu (nude monk) . Actually the Naga Sadhu was an imposter, a drug addict who on pretext of asking for water molested a girl and the man seen in the video beating him was brother of the girl. Naga Sadhu was arrested later.

Mahesh Bhatt



Film Maker, Author, Nomad with no destination.

Mahesh Bhatt tweeted a photo claiming to be of a frozen wave while it was actually a glacier cut by wind in such shape

Sanjay Nirupam

President,Mumbai Congress Committee,Ex Member of Parliament of India.



Sanjay Nirupam tweeted a photo of PM Modi with many edible dishes on table using sarcastic text. The image was edited with many dishes added.

He tweeted a black and white photo claiming RSS people were saluting a British queen.

It was actually digitally made from two different unrelated images

Manickam Tagore

Secertary,All India Congress Committee (IC Karnataka) Former MP (2009-2014) .worked in & !

He fell for a parody account which posted sarcasm claiming it to be true

Divya Spandana

Actor, Former Member of Parliament, currently handling Social Media & Digital Communications for the Congress party & I it!

Divya tweeted a small video clip in claiming a rare clip found in which PM accepts he is less educated, It was actually a trimmed clip, after saying this PM went on saying what he did next, how much more did he study.

Sanjiv Bhatt

Former Indian Police Service officer from Gujarat

Sanjiv Bhatt tweeted a photo of wire-men working on electric poles claiming the photo was taken 5 days ago. It was actually 2 year old photo.

He tweeted a photo comparing PM Modi with Adolf Hitler, in both they pulling the child’s ears. The Hitler photo was actually edited, he actually holding the girl from shoulders

He tweeted a photo of women being beaten claiming to be from BHU molestation protest while the photo actually as old and from Patna.

Ajaz Khan

Bollywood Film Actor | Fitness Freak | Proud Indian | Ek Number Manas

Azaz Khan tweeted a photoin which two cows and a man are lying on the ground dead. He claimed that they died because of hunger holding government accountable for it. Also used a ohto of a torn slipper claiming to be of the farmer.

Actually they died because of electrocution and the slipper photo was from other country.

Amit Shah

National President of Bharatiya Janata Party / President, Gujarat Cricket Association

Amit Shah tweeted his doubt if in the recent rally of all opposition coming together, if any one chanted patriotic slogans. But many actually did chant.

Related