Students' Federation of India activist Soori Krishnan was reportedly injured in the violence at Jawaharlal Nehru University on January 5. His photo with a bandaged head was also published by mainstream media.

And now, Krishnan has become the target of some social media users who claim that he faked injuries on his head and hands. These users are sharing a set of three photos - the first showing his head and both hands bandaged, the second showing his head wrapped in a bandage and the third without any bandage but with a garland wrapped around his neck.

advertisement

Facebook page "We Support Dr Subramanian Swamy" uploaded the post with the caption, "Within 6 hours our fatally injured jihadist commie soori has joined his Kerala comrades for celebrations. Shortest cure of two fractures and a skull fracture in the entire world of medical history."

India Today Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The medical report proves Krishnan has lacerations on his scalp, and hand injuries as well.

Till the time of filing this story, the post was shared more than 2,300 times. The archived version can be seen here.

Several people such as filmmaker Ashoke Pandit made a similar claim on Twitter. The official Twitter handles of ABVP and some BJP workers such as Y. Satya Kumar and Prabin Padhy have also tweeted similar content.

AFWA probe

By using a combination of reverse image and keyword searches, we found several Malayalam news reports confirm that Krishnan was welcomed by local SFI workers in Kerala. In these reports, he can be seen without the head bandage and with a garland around his neck.

Krishnan later clarified about his injuries in a short video on social media. Several Facebook pages and users such as Comrade and Kriti Roy have posted the video.

In this video, Krishnan shows a wound on his head and explained about his hand injury that he had incurred due to the violence at JNU. Screenshots from the video show the stitches on his head.

Krishnan was treated at AIIMS on January 5. We have accessed his medical report through our Kerala correspondent Gopikrishnan Unnithan. The medical report confirms lacerations on his scalp. There is no mention of fracture on his hands but it confirms swelling and tenderness.



Therefore, we can say that the viral claim insinuating that Krishnan faked his injuries is not true.