A picture of a huge gathering of people is circulating on social media with the claim that it captures a major protest held in Paris recently against coronavirus restrictions.

France has delayed reopening of cultural venues and introduced a night curfew to curb the spread of Covid-19. This has irked many people who recently held demonstrations in Paris and other French cities.

advertisement

Meanwhile, several Facebook users posted a picture showing thousands of people on the streets with the caption, "Somebody Posted this REVOLUTION IMAGE Last Night! FB DELETED IT .. Here is is AGAIN! FRANCE is STANDING UP!! NO MORE BANKSTERS CONTROL! NO More Fake Covid Controls .. NO MORE Money / Financial Controls .. LIBERTY, EQUALITY, FRATERNITY!!!"

Text superimposed on the picture says, "Looks Like Paris Has Had Enough Tonight! The World Is Awake. 18.12.2020 Paris".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture is of people celebrating France's 2018 FIFA World Cup victory. Lakhs of people had turned up at Paris's Champs-Elysees avenue after France beat Croatia to become the world's soccer champion in the tournament held in Russia. However, Paris did witness smaller protests against Covid-19 restrictions.

Tracing the viral picture

With the help of reverse search, we found the picture on the website of "Getty Images". The picture was originally taken by global news agency AFP in 2018.

The caption of the photo reads, "This picture taken from the top of the Arch of Triumph (Arc de Triomphe) on July 15, 2018 shows people lighting flares as they celebrate after France won the Russia 2018 World Cup final football match against Croatia, on the Champs-Elysees avenue in Paris. Ludovic MARIN / AFP".

The massive celebration over France's victory was reported by several news websites at the time along with the viral image and other pictures of Paris.

Therefore, it is confirmed that though France witnessed protests against Covid-19 restrictions, this particular picture has no connection to these demonstrations. The viral picture is two years old of France's victory in the FIFA World Cup.