Patriotic slogans are again at the centre of a political controversy. Targeting the opposition's recent rally in Kolkata, BJP president Amit Shah claimed that not a single leader bothered to raise slogans such as 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' or 'Vande Matram' at the event. Shah made the claim on Tuesday while speaking at a rally in West Bengal's Malda district.

India Today TV's Fact Check team has found the claim to be false. Several leaders present at the united opposition rally did raise patriotic slogans.

advertisement

Shah claimed, "Itne bada Brigade samawesh tha saab. Ek bhi Bharat Mata Ki Jai nahin lagayi. Lagayi thi kya? Ek bhi Vande Mataram bola tha kya? [It was such a huge gathering at Brigade but not once was Bharat Mata Ki Jai said. Was it ever said? Even for once, did they say Vande Mataram?]" This can be heard at 13:40 minutes in the Facebook video of Shah's Malda rally.

The BJP's official Twitter handle also posted the same claim with #AmitShahInMalda.

The archive version can be seen here.

Thousands people liked the post, while hundreds shared it. The United India Rally which Shah is referring to, took place at the Brigade ground in Kolkata last Saturday (January 19). Several Opposition leaders such as AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, NC leader Farooq Abdullah, DMK chief MK Stalin and Karnataka CM HD Kumaraswamy attended the mega rally against the NDA.

We analysed the speeches of the eminent leaders present at the event.

Contrary to Shah's claim, we found that TMC chief Mamata Banerjee ended her speech by raising 'Vande Matram' slogan thrice. She said, "We also respect people whose slogan is 'Inqilaab Zindabaad'." She concluded the event with the national anthem.

Not only the West Bengal CM, but many Opposition leaders such as Farooq Abdullah, HD Kumaraswamy, Deve Gowda and Tejashwi Yadav ended their speeches with the 'Jai Hind' slogan. Patidar leader Hardik Patel finished his address with 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai'.

Incidentally, even before Shah made this claim, an image which looks like a Hindi newspaper clipping was also going viral with the same claim that Opposition leaders never raised patriotic slogans. This claim was falsely being attributed to Shweta Singh, a prominent TV anchor of the news channel Aaj Tak.

This post wad shared more than 11,000 times at the last count.

We found that a troll account created in the name of the anchor had originally posted this, which many believed to be true.

Shweta Singh refuted the viral post, claiming that she had never written such a thing and these facts are untrue.

We could not find any Hindi newspaper clipping with this claim attributed to Shweta Singh, indicating that the image is photoshopped.