On January 13, Kerala cricketer Mohammed Azharuddeen smashed a century off just 37 balls against Mumbai in the ongoing Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament. The knock made Azharuddeen an overnight sensation, with prominent personalities such as former Indian opener Virender Sehwag and commentator Harsha Bhogle appreciating the 26-year-old’s efforts.

But even as he is soaking in the glory, an apparent screenshot of a news headline saying “Kerala born Muslim boy blasts Mumbai” has gone viral. The screenshot of news portal “The News Minute” has Azharuddeen’s picture below the headline. Netizens have lashed out saying the headline is an example of Islamophobia.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the screenshot is morphed. The actual article was published by “The News Minute” with the headline “Kerala opener Azharuddeen who scored century in 37 balls wins hearts”.

Believing the screenshot to be true, a Facebook user wrote, “If thats not Islamophobic I don’t know what is. I condemn this headline.. Disgusting!!” The archive version can be seen here. Many others have also criticised the headline.

AFWA investigation

Using relevant keywords, we found the news article related to the screenshot. Here, the headline is totally different from what can be seen in the viral screenshot. Also, the font used in the screenshot is different from the actual headline font of “The News Minute”.

Editor-in-chief of “The News Minute”, Dhanya Rajendran, has also clarified on Twitter that the screenshot is fake. She wrote, “Extremely disappointed with people who made a fake screenshot, even more disappointed with journalists here spreading it. This was our original headline. If nothing else, have some trust that we would not have such a headline”.

Extremely disappointed with people who made a fake screenshot, even more disappointed with journalists here spreading it. This was our original headline. If nothing else, have some trust that we would not have such a headline pic.twitter.com/5JHJEs3S8h— Dhanya Rajendran (@dhanyarajendran) January 16, 2021

As per “The News Minute” article, Azharuddeen plays for Kerala and smashed a century off just 37 balls against Mumbai at Wankhede stadium on January 13. The Kasargod- born opener has become the first player to score a T20 ton in domestic cricket for Kerala.

in 37 balls!



Sensational stuff this is from Mohammed Azharuddeen.



What a knock this has been from the Kerala opener! #KERvMUM #SyedMushtaqAliT20



Follow the match https://t.co/V6H1Yp60Vs pic.twitter.com/Nrh88uOOFU— BCCI Domestic (@BCCIdomestic) January 13, 2021

The highlights of Azharuddeen’s innings can be seen here.