A video that has gone viral on social media shows a man in white kurta-pyjama dancing with a woman in an objectionable manner and also trying to hug her forcibly. Another man in the same dress can also be seen dancing. The claim with the video says these are MLAs of the Rashtriya Janta Dal and the incident took place in Moreh town near the Indo-Myanmar border.

advertisement

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that none of the men in the video is an MLA.

Incidentally, many media houses too fell for the misleading claim. According to news channel TV9 BHARTVARSH and some other media reports, the man in glasses hugging the woman forcibly is RJD MLA Yaduvansh Yadav, who represents Pipra (Supaul) assembly constituency of Bihar.

News18 also claimed that these are RJD MLAs. The media houses attributed their reports to a website called Imphal Times’.

The video is being widely shared on Facebook and Twitter and netizens are massively trolling the MLAs.

RJD, from its official Twitter handle, has also denied these claims. The TV9 BHARTVARSH tweet is deleted now.

AFWA started its investigation by comparing the man in the viral video with pictures of Yaduvansh Yadav available on the Internet. We also reached out to the Editor of Imphal Times, Rinku Khumukcham, and MLA Yaduvansh Yadav.

Yadav confirmed that he, along with other three MLAs, visited Imphal on a study tour of the Internal Resource and Central Assistance’ committee of the Bihar Legislative Assembly. The committee members were present there from May 30 to June 3.

Yadav is the chairman of this committee. The other members on the tour were BJP MLA Sachin Prasad Singh, JD(U) MLA Raj Kumar Rai and RJD MLA Shivachandra Ram. They are also members of the committee.

During the tour, the members also visited nearby areas of Imphal, including Moreh. Yadav told us that the man dancing in an objectionable manner in the video is not him but Vijay Kumar, an aide of JD(U) MLA Raj Kumar Rai.

AFWA also spoke to Vijay Kumar who accepted that the man in the viral video is him. He told us that the incident took place at a small restaurant near Moreh town on June 2. According to him, no MLA was present at the place. The other person dancing in the video is Vijay’s friend Sanjeev Kumar.

To verify this, we also compared pictures of Yaduvansh Yadav and Vijay Kumar. It has been clarified now that the person dancing in the video is Vijay Kumar and not Yaduvansh Yadav.