The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared Novel Coronavirus a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. Scientists have mapped the genomic sequence of the virus but are still researching the source of the virus.

In light of the health emergency, social media is filled with several false narratives claiming to have found the source and cure to destroy the coronavirus, which is creating panic among the citizens of different countries.

Now a news published by a website named the Hal Turner Radio Show claimed that the deadly Coronavirus has killed 1,12,000 people and infected 28 lakh in China. It also said that coronavirus is killing thousands every day and the bodies are being taken directly to incinerators.The article published by Hal Turner Radio Show on January 24, 2020, titled “Coronavirus in China: 23 Million QUARANTINED, 2.8 Million Infected; 112,000 DEAD”

Archive Link

American political commentator Hal Turner, who runs his own news portal, went on to claim that covert intelligence sources inside China’ confirmed the news. The Hal Turner Radio Show claimed that the coronavirus “is killing THOUSANDS every day.” The story cited “covert intelligence sources who are former colleagues” of Turner from his “15 years with the FBI, the final five years handling National Security, Terrorism and Foreign Counter-Intelligence.”

We looked up the situation reports published by WHO on their websites. According, to the situation report of 12 February 2020, no new countries reported cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. We found that:

There has been 44730 confirmed cases and NOT 2.8 Million as claimed in the news article.

There has been 16067 suspected cases and NOT 23 Million as claimed in the news article.

There has been 1114 deaths and NOT 112,000 as claimed in the news article.

Situation Report

According to the Situation Report on 13 February 2020, there has been 46550 confirmed cases and NOT 2.8 Million as claimed in the news article.

Situation Report

On December 21, 2010, Turner was sentenced to more than two years in federal prison. He was charged with threatening to assault and murder three federal appeals court judges after they ruled in 2009 to uphold handgun bans in Chicago and Oak Park, Illinois.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above-mentioned report to be False. The claims made by the website are far too exaggerated. Even though WHO has declared Novel Coronavirus a Public Health Emergency, we would advise our readers to not spread exaggerated news on social media as it creates panic among the citizens.