Violent clashes broke out in Bihar and poll-bound Uttar Pradesh in the last few days between police and railway job aspirants over the RRB NTPC exam results.

In this context, a set of four images of lathicharge and injured people is circulating on social media as police brutality against RRB candidates in Bihar. One such post received more than 2,500 retweets till the time of publishing this article.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the above pictures were taken during a protest that took place against the Uttar Pradesh government in 2018.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using reverse search, we found that these images were carried in different media reports in 2018. As per these reports, the pictures were taken during a protest outside the UP assembly in Lucknow on November 2, 2018. Hundreds of aspirants had assembled alleging discrimination in the recruitment of 68,500 assistant teachers.

Reports added that the protest was held following an Allahabad high court order directing a CBI probe into the selection process of Assistant Teachers Recruitment Examination, 2018.

We found that images 1 and 3 from the viral post were carried by “Amar Ujala” on November 2, 2018.

Many candidates were injured in police lathicharge during the protest.

The first and second images in the post showing bleeding protesters were also tweeted by Rahul Gandhi, Samajwadi Party spokesperson Richa Singh and journalist Prashant Kumar, criticising the UP government for the police brutality against job aspirants.

The fourth image of police lathicharge in the viral post was also shared by several social media users in November 2018 as from the same protest.

A comparison between a better quality version of the fourth image with a picture of the UP assembly available on Google Maps confirmed that the image is indeed from Lucknow.

Also, the woman in yellow dress in the fourth image can be seen in one of the pictures of the 2018 protest carried by “Amar Ujala”.

According to reports, in protest against alleged irregularities in the RRB NTPC exam, candidates torched a train at Gaya railway station in Bihar on January 26. Some other stations were ransacked, while railway traffic was blocked across the state. At several places in Bihar and UP, police cracked down heavily on protesters.

It is, however, clear that the images shared in the viral post are over three years old and not related to the ongoing RRB protests in Bihar.

READ | Fact Check: This is not the Indian Army rescuing a bird stuck in power line