Tales of big cats are abound on social media. Sometimes they melt your heart, while often they leave you in shock. A series of images and a video related to violent attacks by tigers have caught the attention of social media users recently. Several claim that these gory pictures are from Odisha's Daringbari. This video is also shared by some Facebook users.

advertisement

Uttar Pradesh's Chandauli district, Himachal Pradesh and Warangal in Telangana are among the other claims made by netizens in terms of locations of these pictures.

India Today Fact Check found that these images and the video are old, and the claims associated with them are false.

Among all the viral posts, a terrifying tiger attack video is being shared the most in various WhatsApp groups with the claim that this incident happened during a picnic party in Daringbari.

In this video, a person can be seen being mauled by two to three tigers. One can also hear the screams of people who are trying to save the wounded man by shouting and firing sound crackers at the tigers.

We looked for the recent tiger attack incident in Daringbari. In a report filed by Orissapost on January 13, 2019, the article mentioned that no such tiger attack incident happened in the Daringbari area recently. The report also claimed that as per the forest ranger, locals circulated these pictures and the video to keep holidayers away from the area.

Navbharattimes also carried the same news and called it a "rumour". It further stated that as per a social media user, this video was from a zoo in China.

We looked for the video of tiger attack in Chinese zoo in YouTube and found the same video in Star Online. It says a man was mauled to death by a tiger in June 2017 in the Yongor Zoo of eastern China when he entered its enclosure to avoid paying for tickets.

The next challenge was to verify the viral images of leopard attack. One such picture shows a leopard on a road while many motorcycles lying unattended beside it.

Another picture shows panicked people perched upon a tree.

These photos have been in circulation for more than a month. Some users on WhatsApp claimed that the leopard attack incident happened in Nandi hills of Bangalore, while some said it was from Aarey milk colony in Mumbai. Online news portal NPnews24 claimed that the incident is from Mumbai's Aarey colony.

We reverse-searched one of the images and found Twitter user @ketan83 who posted these same photos and urged people not to believe in rumours. He claimed that this leopard attack happened in Chiplun in Maharashtra.

advertisement

When we searched with keywords such as leopard attack in Chiplun, we came across a news video of JaiMaharshtranews. Here, we found the entire video of the Chiplun leopard attack and spotted the same place where the leopard was seen lying on the road with motorcycles all around.

India Today concluded that these images and the video are not just old and misleading, but they are different incidents from various locations.

Also read: Fact Check: Did Rahul Gandhi attribute Mahatma Gandhi's non-violence mantra to Islam?

Also read: Fact Check: Who is meeting Gurmeet Ram Rahim in this viral photo? No, not Kapil Sibal