Spread the truth:

A set of two photos is viral in which the left one shows ex CM of MP, Shivraj Singh Chauhan is wearing a plaster on his right hand while in the right photo he can be seen wearing the plaster in left hand (really ?).

“भाजपा नेताओं को किसी फिल्म जगत में काम करना चाहिए। ऐसा चमत्कार, सुबह इस हाथ में प्लास्टर, शाम को दूसरे हाथ में प्लास्टर । भगवान शिवराज सिंह चौहान जी के दोनों हाथ जल्द ठीक करे ”

Translation: BJP ministers should work in movies. Such miracle that Plaster on this hand in morning while on another in evening. May god heal both hands of Shivraj Singh Chauhan fast”

An ex VJ and RJ ‘Ria revealed’ tweeted –

Acting kar kar ke hi tho in logo ne bhakton ko ULLU banaya .. https://t.co/aL270OZmbD — RiA (@RiaRevealed) October 3, 2019

Following post on a Facebook Page “Priyanka Gandhi – Future Of India” has more than 13000 shares

A Congress supporter “Pappu Singh INC”‘s tweet has been retweeted more than 200 times

भाजपा नेताओं को किसी फिल्म जगत में काम करना चाहिए।

ऐसा चमत्कार, सुबह इस हाथ में प्लास्टर, शाम को दूसरे हाथ में प्लास्टर । भगवान शिवराज सिंह चौहान जी के दोनों हाथ जल्द ठीक करे 😊😊😊 pic.twitter.com/XNY3rplE2P — Pappu Singh INC (@Pappu30003) October 2, 2019

इसे कहते हैं ड्रामा- एक दिन लेफ़्ट मे प्लास्टर और अगले दिन राइट में… 😂👇 pic.twitter.com/kfBv0pT1EH — Sohel Ahmed Khan (@Sohel__AK) October 2, 2019

Truth

Although none of the photo is edited, but the photo in right is a selfie which is mirrored i.e. Vertically flipped. both are genuine but by default

Left (First): Viral selfie image (Mirrored) shows in left hand and Pockets on suits and jacket on right side



Right (Second): The real photo shows in right hand and pockets in right places

Shivraj Singh Chauhan also tweeted a video in the same clothes as shown in mirrored viral selfie image but the video shows right hand as it’s taken by others

Shivraj Seems probably was hurt in last month’s end it seems as on his official Facebook Page, he can be seen without the plast on 25th Sep event while with cast on 29th Sep meeting post.

Two years ago, Subramanian Swamy retweeted a similar Fake News which was done intentionally as it was not a selfie. The tweet had a photo claiming Rahul Gandhi used left hand to salute our Flag

More Fakes

Open to corrections on this one, but looking at the two pictures, it seems the plaster on Shivraj Singh Chauhan, is on the right hand on odd days & the left hand on even days.

What's the story here ? pic.twitter.com/XqGnL0UDJt — Thakursahab (@65thakursahab) October 2, 2019

इसे कहते हैं ड्रामा- एक दिन लेफ़्ट मे प्लास्टर और अगले दिन राइट में… 😂👇 pic.twitter.com/kfBv0pT1EH — Sohel Ahmed Khan (@Sohel__AK) October 2, 2019

Madhaya Pradesh k senior actor Shivraj Singh Chauhan @ChouhanShivraj Bhool Gaye Kal ki shooting mei Right Hand Fracture tha, Aaj galti se Plaster Left hand mei chada k aaye.😄😛🤦‍♂ CC : @RoflGandhi_ @zoo_bear pic.twitter.com/O2BkA8wiGs — krunal Joshi (@Kr__Joshi) October 2, 2019

Related