A video of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going viral on social media. Users are claiming that, in the 10-second viral video, PM Modi said that if my mother had stopped me on that day when I used to do small steals then today, I would not have become such a big robber. While sharing this video, a user wrote with a laughing emoji – “The truth does come out sometime..!!

Similarly, many other users have also shared this video with similar captions.

Fact Check:

We fact-checked the viral video. We saw a word written in Bengali in the background of PM Modi’s video. After this, we started searching the video of PM Modi’s visits to Bengal. Meanwhile, we got a video on their YouTube channel of Narendra Modi.

The title of the video is – “PM Modi addresses public meeting at Siliguri, West Bengal.”

In this video, PM Modi was narrating the story of a robber, but indirectly targeting West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee.

At 39:06 minutes, he can be heard saying – “It is in Siliguri only a few days ago that Didi said that her Toll charges only Rs 100, 200, 500. What is the big deal? Tell me brother Didi is saying very comfortably that toll takes 100, 200, and 500 rupees. what does it have? Brothers and sisters… When we were young, we heard a story. In that story, a very big dacoit-robber was sentenced to death. As a last wish, he expressed his desire to meet his mother. After which the government made him meet his mother. When he met his mother, he cut off his mother’s nose. When people asked why you cut off your mother’s nose. Then he said- When I used to steal small things, if my mother had stopped me on that day, then today I would not have become such a big robber. ,

Conclusion:

Our fact check proves that the video going viral is from a year ago during the West Bengal assembly elections. During this, when PM Modi reached Siliguri to rally, he narrated the story of a robber-robber, targeting CM Mamata Banerjee. Which is being viral among social media users with the claim of misleading.

Claim- PM Modi called himself a big robber

Claimed by- social media users

Fact Check – Misleading