After Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Bundelkhand Expressway on July 16, news reports erupted, claiming that the recently-constructed road witnessed significant potholes due to heavy rainfall. Against this backdrop, an image showing a damaged road is widely shared on social media, claiming that it shows the terrible condition of Indian roads.

The image is shared on Facebook with a caption: “इजराइल के सहयोग से भारत में पहली पोर्टेबल सड़क का उदघाटन हो गया है। ट्रैफिक ज़्यादा होने पर ये ऑटोमेटिकली घूम जायेगी। कम ट्रैफिक की तरफ रास्ता अपने आप मुड़ जायेगा। और ये गूगल मैप के साथ इंटीग्रेटेड सर्विस होगी। प्रीमियम पैक वालो को ये खुद slide करते हुए मंजिल तक पहुंचा कर वापस आयेगी।” (English translation: The first portable road has been inaugurated in India in collaboration with Israel. It will rotate automatically when the traffic is heavy. The road will automatically turn towards less traffic. And it will be an integrated service with Google Maps. It will slide itself to the floor and come back to the premium pack ones.)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

When NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, it was found to be MISLEADING.

Doing a simple Reverse Image Search directed us to a Thailand-based news publication that carried the same viral image in 2019. According to Google translation, the image shows “Ban Huai Thom-Na Nong Daeng Road, Pako Sub-district, Chanuman District, Amnat Charoen Province.”

The article also embedded a Facebook post by a Thailand-based man that featured images similar to the viral picture. According to the post, the incident happened around his neighbourhood.

We then searched his profile and found another post dated September 1, 2019. The user posted several images of the damaged road.

Several Thai news publications had also reported the same incident in September 2019.

Thus, it is evident from the above information that an image from Thailand is being falsely shared as the terrible condition of Indian roads. Therefore, the viral claim is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news