An image of a father pretending to breastfeed the baby with the photograph of a lady masked on his face has gone viral on social media. An emotional claim attached to the photo says that after the death of the mother of the baby, this is how the father is struggling to bring up the baby.

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim with the viral image is misleading. The man in the image Samoel Ferreira confirmed to us that his wife is alive and his family is doing well.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Facebook page "SARE JAHA KA DIL" shared the image with the caption that roughly translates: "After the mother of the baby died, this father tied her photo on his face and feed his baby." One can also see the man wearing a bra to support the milk bottle and masked the picture of the baby's mother.

To verify the claim, we ran a reverse search on the viral image on Yandex. We found an article published in a Brazillian website with the viral photos. As per the article, the Brazillian man named Samoel Ferreira found this unusual way to breastfeed his child in the absence of the mother of the baby.

India Today approached Ferreira on Instagram, who told us, "My wife went to the Church and the baby was with me. He was refusing to have milk without his mother. So, to feed him I found this fun solution." He also told us that the viral claim is absolutely false, his wife and his family is alright. He also sent us a recent photograph of his family.

We also found the video posted by Samoel himself on his Facebook account that was shared over three lakh times.

He uploaded the video on September 29 with the caption in Portuguese language that roughly translates to: "When the mother needs to go out, and it is time to nurse: that's the way to invent. @ Samoelmototaxi"

Samoel told us that he is a councilman in his city and works in a taxi company too.

It is clear that the heart touching story with the viral image is not true. The mother of the baby is alive.