An image of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv’s iconic Motherland Monument lit up with “Russian Warships F**k Yourself” written in the Russian language has gone viral on social media.

A Twitter user shared this image with the caption, “While Kyiv prepares for another night, the drones over Dnipro river make the signs for the Russian troops “Russian war ship? Go f*ck yourself”.”

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the viral image was morphed. It was created by superimposing the text, “Russian Warships F**k Yourself,” on an old image of the Motherland Monument. The original image was clicked by the Kyiv-based photographer Dmitry Korol.

AFWA probe

The Motherland Monument, also known as the Statue of Rodina Mat, is a part of the National Museum of the History of Ukraine in the Second World War. Inaugurated in the year 1981, it symbolises the feat accomplished by people during the war.

When we checked, we did not find news reports on the Motherland Monument being lit with messages targeted towards Russian troops. Next, we reverse-searched the viral image on the Russian search engine Yandex. This led us to a Flickr post by one Dmitry Korol.

Upon comparing Korol’s photo with the one in the viral post, we noticed a lot of similarities.

The EXIF data of Korol’s image revealed that it was posted on April 16, 2012 in Kyiv, Ukraine.

What did Dmitry Korol say?

We contacted Dmitry Korol for further clarification. He told us that this image was indeed clicked by him in the year 2012. “I clicked this photograph in April 2012. I have no connection with the person who superimposed the text, ‘Russian Warships F**k Yourself’ on it,” he told AFWA.

Korol, who is from Kyiv, Ukraine, moved to Vinnytsia because of the war. He works as a programmer in a Kyiv-based company. Photography is his passion — it focuses on landscapes of Kyiv.

Who morphed this image?

We came across a tweet from a verified user who clarified that she had overlaid the two images ( the original and the morphed one ).

Yeah, I overlaid the two pictures: pic.twitter.com/J7rJE09LTe — Parker Molloy (@ParkerMolloy) March 2, 2022

Thus, it is clear that the photo that is going viral is a morphed one. In reality, the monument does not bear any message for the invading Russian troops.