Did Africa’s Royal British commandos kill the world’s largest anaconda which was 134 feet long and weighed more than 2,000 kilos? Did they take 37 days to kill the snake that had devoured over 250 humans and 2,300 animals?

Facebook user Ramakant Kajaria posted a picture of a humongous snake in a forest and onlookers surrounding it. The viral claim along with the picture says, World’s biggest snake Anaconda found in Africa’s Amazon river. It has killed 257 human beings and 2325 animals. It is 134 feet long and 2067 kgs. Africa’s Royal British commandos took 37 days to get it killed.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be wrong. Not only is the viral image photoshopped, but the entire information associated with it is cooked up and far from facts.

The viral post is being shared on social media for the past few years. Though Ramakant Kajaria posted the claim in 2015, it is still being shared by many. Till the filing of this story, the post was shared more than 1,24,000 times.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

There are several glaring discrepancies in the viral message:

The Amazon river is not in Africa but South America.

There is not a single credible news report that has reported about such a huge snake that has killed so many humans and animals.

There is no institution called Africa’s Royal British commandos.

The image of the snake in the viral claim bears no sign of struggle or wound on the creature that was killed apparently by commandos after 37 days of long battle.

According to National Geography the Green Anaconda, which is considered to be the largest snake in the world, is 30 feet long. But the viral post claims that the snake is 134 feet long. Poor photoshop The viral image is poorly photoshopped. The fuzzy edge of the creature gives a clear impression that this is a manipulated picture. With the help of reverse image search, the original image of the snake can be found on the internet. Original image:





Photoshopped image:



Conclusion Going by the claim and the image, it is certain that the viral post is an absolutely a cooked-up story passed off on social media over the years. There have been several similar videos and images doing the rounds on the Internet over the largest snake in the world. International fact-check organisation Snopes had earlier debunked this claim.



ALSO WATCH | Meet the Snake Lady of Maharashtra who saved over 50k reptiles