Before the US election in 2016, did Donald Trump say he wanted to run America the way Prime Minister Narendra Modi was running his country? Netizens were profusely confused when film director and former editor Vinod Kapri tweeted a Navbharat Times article with the caption "khula hai jhoot ka bazaar aao sach bole".

advertisement





The Navbharat Times report said that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath recently made this claim regarding the US President Donald Trump in West Bengal's Purulia district.

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

People on social media were divided on Kapri's post, with some disbelieving Yogi's claim while others claimed it to be true.

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that there is no iota of doubt in Yogi's claim. Trump had indeed applauded PM Modi in 2016 before the US election and said that he wanted to follow some of PM Modi's steps on the issue of governance.

Kapri's post was liked and retweeted by hundreds of people. Besides Navbharat Times, news agency ANI also posted the same story with the headline, "Trump admired Modi's governance: Adityanath".

On Tuesday (February 5), the UP chief minister said this at a public address in Purulia.

We can listen to the exact part of Yogi's speech where he made this remark about President Trump at the 12.12 minute of this YouTube link.

We looked for international articles related to Trump and PM Modi during the US presidential election in 2016.

In October 2016, Huffington Post, wrote an article, "How PM Narendra Modi Inspired Donald Trump In His Presidential Campaign". The article referred to an ad campaign of Trump, where the Republican nominee borrowed a catchphrase "Ab Ki Baar, Trump Sarkaar" from Modi's 2014 election campaign and used it to woo Indians living in America.

The Washington Post also reported about PM Modi's influence on Trump during the US elections. The news website quoted Trump talking about PM Modi at one of his rallies in Edison, where he said, "Great man! I applaud him for doing so. And I look forward to doing some serious bureaucratic trimming right here in the United States. Believe me, we need it also."

Though it is not clear from Kapri's post what he tried to say while referring to the article on Yogi, one thing is sure that the UP chief minister's claim about Trump was not false.