Just a week before Rajasthan goes to polls, a video is doing the rounds on Facebook with the claim that "Pakistan Zindabad" slogans were raised during a Congress event at Rajsamand.

Watch the video here

In the video, Congress workers can be seen sitting on the ground and shouting slogans. Towards the end of the video, a banner appears with "Nagar Congress Committee Rajsamand" written on it.

advertisement

The video has been shared by many Facebook users.

India Today Fact Check found that the workers were shouting the name of a local Congress candidate, Narayan Singh Bhati, and not pro-Pakistan slogans.

We found that there were some netizens who contradicted the claim, saying that the workers were actually raising "Bhati Saab Zindabad slogans".

Taking a cue from this, we looked at the list of Congress party candidates in Rajsamand. We found that Narayan Singh Bhati is the Congress candidate from Assembly seat No. 175, Rajsamand. We contacted him regarding the video and the claim that 'Pakistan Zindabad' slogans were raised during his meeting. He said, "This claim is absolutely rubbish. The workers were raising slogans in my name. I will lodge a police complaint in this regard soon."

When we carefully listened to the slogans in the video, we found that workers were actually shouting "Bhaati Saab Zindabad".

Phonetically, it may sound very similar to the slogan "Pakistan Zindabad", especially if someone is previously told so.

Zoheb Sheikh, Congress's national social media convener, has also tweeted, saying BJP supporters were trying to spark communal tension using a fake video. He also urged the state police to take action in this regard.

Narayan Singh Bhati is contesting on this seat against BJP's Kiran Maheshwari. She won this seat in 2013 by more than 30,000 votes and was Higher Education Minister in the Vasundhara Raje government.

(This article has been published as part of the Ekta News Coalition.)

Also read: Fact Check: Who funded the tallest statue of the world?

Also read: Fact Check: Photo of Shivraj Singh Chouhan feasting on non-veg food is morphed

Watch: Demonetisation was massive failure: Congress workers