A video in which a group of children can be seen firing a rifle is widely being shared on social media. In the video, an elderly man can be seen helping the children and teaching them how to load the rifle. Sharing this video, users are claiming that it shows a Madrasa in Pratapgarh of Uttar Pradesh where a maulana is giving arms training to students.

The video is being shared on Facebook with a long caption in Hindi: Parts of the caption read, “आपको बता दें कि कंधई थाना क्षेत्र अंतर्गत गोपालपुर में मदरसों में बच्चों को राइफल चलाना सिखाया जा रहा है। वीडियो में आप साफ तौर पर देख सकते कि हैं कि हबीबी किस तरह से राइफल को लोड करके बच्चों के हाथों में थमा रहा है और हर्ष फायरिंग करने का आदेश दे रहा है इससे यह साफ साबित होता है कि अपराध और अपराधियों का बढ़ चढ़कर बोलबाला है।”

(English translation: Let us tell you that in Gopalpur under the Kandhai police station area, children are being taught to operate rifles in madrassas. In the video you can clearly see how Habibi is loading the rifle and handing it over to the children and Harsh is ordering them to fire, this clearly proves that crime and criminals are on a high)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim and found it to be MISLEADING.

Using the InVid Tool, we extracted keyframes from the viral video and performed a Reverse Image Search with relevant keywords. This search directed us to a news report published by Jagran on July 21, 2022, that carried similar visuals. According to the article, a man dressed like a Sheikh came to the wedding ceremony held in Gopalpur village of Kandhai, Pratapgarh district, Uttar Pradesh, and trained the youth to operate rifles.

Searching further, we found many other news articles that reported the same incident. According to the reports, the video is from the day of Bakri Id. We could not find any news report that stated that the viral video shows any maulana giving arms training to students in madrasa.

We also found an official statement by Pratapgarh ASP on the same case. The tweet text reads, “In connection with the viral video of air firing in Ibrahimpur, Gopalpur village of Kandhai police station area of Pratapgarh district, prompt action was taken by the police station Kandhai under the strict direction of Superintendent of Police Pratapgarh @satpal_IPS”. It can also be noted in the statement that the police did not mention Madrasa or Maulana angle in the above statement.

Thus, it is evident from the above information that the viral claim stating that students are being trained for arms by a maulana in Uttar Pradesh’s madrasa is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news