In the peak of the election season, political posts on social media create a lot of traction. But, at the same time, these posts could be potentially dangerous if they spread any misinformation. One such post by Facebook page 'We Dravidians' claims that the BBC has found the BJP to be the most corrupt political party in the world.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be totally false. The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) has neither published these data nor conducted any such survey.

advertisement

The graphics plate in the post claimed this to be a BBC survey. It listed out "Top 10 corrupt political parties in the world 2017".

It shows that the "Bharatiya Janata Party" tops the corruption chart, and next comes the "National Resistance Movement" of Uganda.

A typical black and white BBC logo is used in the post. More than a hundred users have shared this post on Facebook till the time of writing this story.

By using reverse image search on the viral post, we found that it was in circulation since 2017. The same image has been posted with different political parties' names on it and sometimes the order in the list has also changed.

Screenshot of reverse image search on viral post

India Today's AFWA team had earlier debunked a similar claim made by Union minister Giriraj Singh.

He had claimed that Congress party was the world's second-most corrupt party. His claim was based on an article by website 'bbcnewshub.com'. This website has nothing to do with the British Broadcasting Corporation, whose URL is www.bbc.com.

We also searched for any such survey the BBC has done on corrupt political parties ever. We found two relevant articles posted on the website on corruption; one is this and here is the other one. Neither of the articles has listed out the top 10 most corrupt political parties in the world.

In 2017, Geeta Pandey, senior journalist and editor with the BBC, tweeted denying any such survey.

She also referred to an article done by web portal 'Post Card'. The archived version can be seen here.

Post Card had done this story based on an article by BBC News Point, which didn't quote the original source of its research data. The disclaimer section of BBC News Point clearly says it does not take the surety of the information provided by different authors on the website.

BBC News Point screenshot

Last but not the least, the fonts and presentation of the viral image do not match the original BBC style.