Pakistan on Tuesday claimed that its navy had thwarted the attempt by an Indian submarine trying to enter territorial waters. To support its claim, Pakistan navy put up a small video clip, calling it an "actual footage of detected Indian submarine".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim made by Pakistan is misleading.

The small video clip which the Pakistan government is showing to substantiate its claim is an old video, overlaid with graphics to look like an authentic one.

advertisement

Even before the Pakistan government had officially come out with any statement about its allegation on Indian navy, the Pakistan media started going gaga with this breaking news since Tuesday morning. Along with the mainstream Pakistan media, the social media also became hyperactive with the news that Pakistan navy had detected and blocked Indian submarine from entering Pakistani waters.

Almost all Pakistan media began running a video clip, claiming that it has been provided by the Pakistan government as a proof to Indian submarine near Pakistani waters. The Pakistan government came out with the official statement and the video much later in the day. Only around Tuesday afternoon, the information ministry first tweeted and then Pakistan's Director General Public Relations (Navy) posted the video and the statement.

In the 50-second video, first few seconds show shots of a few submarines calling them "file picture of detected Indian submarine" and then a grainy video of submarine mast with flight data overlaid on it. The rest of the 43-second of this grainy video comes with a band saying "actual footage of detected Indian submarine". It has aviation details showing the date and time and geolocation coordinates. The date is March 4 2019, and time is 20.35.

Many Indian social media users pointed out that this particular video is of 2016, when Pakistan made a similar claim that Indian submarine had tried to enter Pakistan waters, which India later denied. This was covered widely by the International media during that time. Along with other media Pakistan Dawn news also ran a video on November 18, 2016 reportedly provided by the Pakistan government.

In this 43-second video we see the same kind of grainy visuals of a submarine mast in the sea. But the 2016 video had no flight data stamped over the footage. The entire footage had the same black band running over it saying "Actual footage of detected Indian Submarine".

In 2016 and in 2019, both the time Pakistan ran a small video clips of 43 seconds with grainy footage calling it "Actual footage of detected Indian Submarine". Looking closely at both the footages it is clear that both the clips are different portions of a same video.

advertisement

But how did the flight data is overlaid on the video? We found that overlaying of flight data on any video is quite easy. Just by using a software called "Dashware" one can overlay it on any video within minutes and can also synchronise the visuals of flying with the data showing on the screen.

There are several tutorial videos of overlaying flight data gauges are available on YouTube.

Indian Government has already refuted Pakistan's claim calling it a misinformation and false propaganda.

Also Read | Fact Check: The woman in this viral picture is not IAF pilot Abhinandan's wife

Also Read | Fact Check: Rahul Gandhi's claim on Ordnance factory of Amethi is misleading