Madhya Pradesh is heading towards bypolls on 28 assembly seats and state heavyweights such as Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Kamal Nath have already kicked off their election campaigns. The byelections are crucial in the sense that the outcome will decide whether Chouhan remains chief minister.

On Sunday, September 20, the CM addressed a public meeting in Mandsaur district. Moments later, the MP Congress tweeted a video showing Chouhan asking the crowd as to who’s a better chief minister between him and Kamal Nath, to which the crowd is heard screaming the latter’s name.

advertisement

Along with the video, the tweet in Hindi translates to, “Madhya Pradesh byelection results announced: At Suwasra in Mandsaur, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asked the public as to who’s a better CM Shivraj Chouhan or Kamal Nath. People in one voice answered Kamal Nath.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral video to be edited. The audio in the clipping is digitally altered. The part where the crowd is heard screaming “Kamal Nath” has been added in the original video.

Till the filing of this article, the tweet was liked by more than 9,000 users and retweeted over 2,600 times. Former MP CM of the Congress, Digvijaya Singh, also tweeted the video with the same caption. The post is viral on Facebook as well. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

We found the complete video of the public meeting on Chouhan’s YouTube channel. The meeting took place in Suwasra constituency where former Congress MLA Hardeep Singh Dang is the probable BJP candidate for the bypolls. In March this year, Dang had resigned from the assembly and then quit the Congress. He later joined the BJP and became a minister in the Chouhan government.

The viral clipping can be seen in the YouTube video after 59.09 minutes. Here, Chouhan is seen asking people, “Who’s the better CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan or Kamal Nath?”

As the audio is not very clear, it cannot be said whose name the crowd was taking, but it certainly wasn’t of Kamal Nath as heard in the viral video.

advertisement

The live streaming of the public meeting is also available on the Twitter handle of Chouhan’s office. The original video clears the fact that the viral video is doctored and the audio related to “Kamal Nath” has been added digitally.

Just for your reference @INCMP, We know you are shameless enough not to delete the tweet & apologise. Like you never apologised to the farmers, the youth, the women, the elderly or to Mahatma Gandhi for defying his last wish. pic.twitter.com/LcYVsUhFDt— BJP MadhyaPradesh (@BJP4MP) September 20, 2020

Taking a dig at MP Congress, Chouhan and the state BJP shared the original video on Twitter.