In the middle of the ongoing tensions between India and Pakistan, pro-Pakistan netizens have been sharing a video with the claim that it is the same Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot who was arrested by Pakistani forces on Wednesday.

Pakistani jets crossed the Line of Control on Wednesday morning, prompting IAF fighter jets to launch counter operations. Pakistan claimed that it shot down two Indian aircraft. A statement released by Pakistan said one Indian pilot was in its custody.



The video that has surfaced shows an injured pilot lying on the ground and people trying to help him.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim to be misleading. The video is from last week when two Surya Kiran aircraft crashed during the rehearsal for the Aero India show in Bengaluru.

On Wednesday, Pakistan armed forces spokesperson claimed that the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) shot down two Indian jets inside its airspace and arrested one Indian pilot. The Indian government admitted that during the engagement with PAF fighter jets, an IAF pilot went missing.

In response to PAF strikes this morning as released by MoFA, IAF crossed LOC. PAF shot down two Indian aircrafts inside Pakistani airspace. One of the aircraft fell inside AJ&K while other fell inside IOK. One Indian pilot arrested by troops on ground while two in the area. February 27, 2019

After this claim by Pakistan, the video spread like wildfire on social media. Facebook page PAK ARMY posted the video, which at the time of filing this story, was shared more than 28,000 times in just four hours. The video along with the misleading claim is being widely circulated on other social media platforms too.

When we searched the video on the Internet, we found several news reports related to it.

According to the news reports, on February 19, one IAF pilot died after two Surya Kiran jets collided mid-air during the rehearsal ahead of the Aero India 2019 show in Bengaluru.

The pilot seen in the video is Wing Commander Vijay Shelke who survived the plane crash. After the crash, reports said he was comforted by a 22-year-old aeronautical engineering student, Chethan Kumar.