An image showing two young men putting up a banner that prohibits people from offering namaz outside the mosque is going viral on social media claiming it to be a repercussion of FIR against 150 people in UP’s Agra over Namaz on the streets.

The image has been shared by a Facebook Page called ‘Organiser Weekly’ which has 15,69,695 followers on the platform. The image has garnered 525 shares and 3,600 likes on Facebook. The image is being shared along with the caption ‘Uttar Pradesh police registered an FIR against 150 people who offered Namaz on the road without permission in Agra, after which banners were hung in the mosque of Meerut that no one should offer Namaz on the road.’ along with the hashtags #CMYogi #Namaz #Agra #Meerut.

Newschecker found similar claims on Facebook and Twitter with similar captions.

https://twitter.com/eOrganiser/status/1517756383885950976?s=20&t=rnqBHks8GAA_cYQuAkQg2w

In Uttar Pradesh, Agra police have reportedly booked over 150 people for offering namaaz on the road in front of a mosque without prior permission from the local police. Social media has been abuzz with misinformation and unsubstantiated claims in light of these events.

Also read: Old Image Of Slums Covered In White Cloth Falsely Linked To Boris Johnson’s Gujarat Visit

Fact Check/ Verification

Upon conducting a Google reverse image search on the viral image to ascertain its authenticity, Newschecker found that the same image had been used in a news report by Amar Ujala uploaded on their website on 17th August, 2019.

According to the report, Friday prayers in Meerut city of UP were offered on the road amid tight security. The banner was put up in front of Patel Mandap on Hapur Road in Meerut. Amar Ujala published this picture in its report I’m the same.

Upon further investigation, Newschecker found a Facebook post of IPS officer Ajay Sahni on 16th August, 2019 which featured the same image. Ajay Sahni wrote in the caption ‘Imam Haji Akhtar from Patel Mandap Masjid put up banners asking people not to offer namaz on the road.’

Newschecker also found a tweet posted by the official handle of Meerut Police on 16th August, 2019 with the same caption and image.

Conclusion

According to the investigation conducted by Newschecker, an old image of banners being hung against offering namaz on the road from 2019 is being passed off as recent after UP police arrested over 150 people.

Result: False Context/Missing Context

Our Sources Report Published by Amar Ujala



Facebook Post of IPS Ajay Sahini



Tweet by Meerut Police

​If you would like us to fact check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 ​or email us at ​checkthis@newschecker.in​. You can also visit the Contact Us​ page and fill out the form.