On May 16, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi met several migrant workers at Delhi’s Sukhdev Vihar. This was reported by the mainstream media with a picture of Gandhi sitting on the pavement and speaking to migrants.

Soon after, a set of two pictures has gone viral on Facebook and WhatsApp with the claim that the entire interaction was staged. While one of the pictures shows a woman in a green saree and white scarf listening to Gandhi speaking, the other shows her in a car sitting next to a man in olive green shirt and black mask. The viral claim says the woman was brought in a car for the “photo-op”.

advertisement

Viral on social media

Several Facebook users posted the set of images with a sarcastic caption in Hindi that translates to, “A scam here too? Rahul baba went to meet the poor at Sukhdev Vihar. One such poor was seen returning in a car. God should make everyone as poor as her.”

Another sarcastic claim on Facebook ranslates to, “Now people will call this a labour scam. Brother, the country is infected with coronavirus. So labourers are also sanitised and brought from their homes in cars. Majboori ka naam __ Gandhi hai.”

The archived versions of these Facebook posts can be seen here and here. Several Facebook users have posted similar content.

AFWA investigation

Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi had tweeted a set of pictures on May 16, the day her brother interacted with the migrants. A close-up shot of one of these pictures is used in the viral post.

Several other Congress leaders also posted similar pictures of Gandhi interacting with the migrants. The other photo in the viral claim can be found among this set of pictures.

News Agency “ANI” had tweeted a set of images from the event just minutes before. The post says: Rahul Gandhi interacted with migrant labourers who were walking near Sukhdev Vihar flyover to return to their home states. Party volunteers later arranged vehicles to take them to their homes. A labourer, Monu says “Coming from Haryana,have to go to Jhansi”.

In the ANI tweet, the same woman seen in the viral post can be found sitting inside the car beside the same man in an olive green shirt and black mask.

Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi interacted with migrant labourers who were walking near Sukhdev Vihar flyover to return to their home states. Party volunteers later arranged vehicles to take them to their homes. A labourer, Monu says "Coming from Haryana,have to go to Jhansi" pic.twitter.com/SMbnejiZpK — ANI (@ANI) May 16, 2020

ANI and other media houses had reported that these homebound migrant labourers were helped by Gandhi, who found them walking near Sukhdev Vihar flyover.

advertisement

Quoting a few labourers, news reports confirmed that Gandhi and his party workers had arranged vehicles to take them back to their home states. We found the video of the woman in the viral post in several news clips, including of “India TV” and “R9 TV”.

In the videos, the woman can be seen getting inside a car along with another man. According to these news reports, Congress volunteers arranged conveyance for this group of migrant labourers in different vehicles.

AFWA spoke to Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary who was present at the spot on May 16. He told us that GAndhi found these migrant workers walking near Sukhdev Vihar, while he was passing through the area. He interacted with them and assured them of necessary help, Chaudhary said.

“When we reached there, we found police taking these migrants workers away. We asked them why they were doing this. The police suggested if we can arrange for their travel, they have no problem,” said Chaudhary. It was then that Gandhi interacted with the migrants and arranged for their travel.

AFWA then spoke to RP Meena, DCP, Southeast Delhi, who was also present at the spot. Meena said, “When this group of migrants was walking near Sukhdev Vihar, a convoy of Rahul Gandhi and Congress workers reached. Rahul Gandhi spoke to the group, and later, Congress workers arranged for their travel.”

advertisement

Several news reports claimed that police were about to detain these migrant labours for violation of social distancing norms. But when Congress workers arranged several vehicles for their travel, maintaining social distancing norms, police allowed them to leave.

Hence, tallying all the information gathered from various sources such as police, media reports and Congress workers, we can confirm that Congress workers arranged for conveyance of these migrant labourers after Rahul Gandhi’s impromptu interaction at Sukhdev Vihar on May 16.