The grand opening of Lulu Mall has taken place in Lucknow. The mall was inaugurated by CM Yogi Adityanath. Lulu Mall, built on 11 acres at a cost of 2 thousand crores, is also being called the biggest mall in UP. At the same time, with the opening, a controversy has also erupted regarding Lulu Mall. After some youths offered Namaz in the mall, there was a dispute over Hindu organizations reading Sundarkand in the mall.

Amidst all this, a post about Lulu Mall is going viral on social media. It is being claimed in this post that 90 percent of the employees of Lulu Mall are Muslim boys, while 100 percent of the female employees are Hindu girls. One user wrote – “90% boys *Muslim* and 100% girls working in 11 acres of North India’s largest and country’s fifth *Lulu Mall* opened 3 days ago in Lucknow at a cost of two thousand crores “Hindu “Lulu is owned by M A Yusuf Ali of Kerala l #Love_Jihad @Lawyer_Kalpana @iSinghApurva @HJSHindi”(Translates Hindi)

Another user claimed that Lulu Mall has a total of 2000 employees. In which there are 1800 Muslim boys and 200 Hindu girls.

At the same time, many other users have made similar claims.

Fact Check:

To check if this post going viral, we did a simple search on Google. We found reports published on the matter by several media channels and newspapers. According to these reports, clarification has been given by the management committee of Lulu Mall regarding the employees.

According to media reports, Lulu Mall management told that 80 percent of their employees are Hindus. The remaining 20 percent of the employees are people of other religions including Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, and Buddhists.

Conclusion:

Our fact check is proving that 80 percent of the employees working in Lulu Mall are not Muslims but from the Hindu community. While 20 percent of the employees include people of other religions including Muslims. That’s why social media users are making fake claims on Lulu Mall by giving it a communal angle.

Claim Review- 90% Muslim employees and 10 Hindu girls in Lulu Mall

Claimed by- Social media users

Fact Check – Fake