A video is being shared on social media with the claim that an innocent girl was stabbed to death after she resisted molestation by a Muslim youth. It is pertinent to mention here that in the last few years, there has been a huge discussion on social media about ‘Love Jihad’. On social media, users belonging to a particular mindset share different types of videos and pictures using the word love jihad. In states like Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, laws have also been made regarding the conversion of girls under the guise of alleged love.

In the same sequence, a video was shared on social media claiming that an innocent girl was murdered with a knife after she resisted molestation by a Muslim youth.

Fact Check

We started searching on Google to know the truth of the claim that is going viral in the name of murder of an innocent girl with a knife for protesting molestation by a Muslim youth. During this, we received reports published by many other publications including Dainik Bhaskar, Amar Ujala and News18 in the results obtained from Gal Search. Amar Ujala in its article quoted the victim’s family members and informed that, ‘According to the family members, the victim is a student of class 8th in the school.

She used to go from her village to the accused’s village to study every day. A boy named Gudda was harassing her every day. Many times the family members of the student had complained about this to her family members, but she was not ready to accept it. One day when the girl student was going to Pratappur to study, she molested her.

At first he calmed down when he resisted. After this, he was already ambushed on the way back to the girl’s house. As the girl was returning from school with her friends. He was attacked with a knife by an eccentric young man. Both the friends of the victim fled from the spot out of fear. At the same time, the victim kept begging for her life, but no one came forward to save her.

We spoke to Sub-Inspector Ravikant Dubey posted in the police station regarding whether this incident has any relation with communal tension or issue like love or not. According to Ravikant Dubey, “There is no religious angle in this whole matter which happened on December 19, 2021. Both the victim and the accused belong to the same religion. The name of the accused is Rajik Hasan Gudda son Ashraf Ali and the name of the victim is Khushnina Parveen. A case has been registered against the accused under several other serious sections of the POCSO Act. The accused arrested on December 20, 2021 has also been arrested. Presently the victim is being treated at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH).”