An image of a young boy with a bullet wound on his chest is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows the last moments of Sunil Sheoran, a teen who died during the 2010 Jat agitation in Haryana’s Hisar. Monday, September 13, marked Sunil’s 11th death anniversary and the netizens are paying tribute to him.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the image to be misleading. This viral image is a still from a Palestinian film.

AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we found a larger version of the same picture shared by a Twitter user in 2015 from Palestine.

Palestinian boy shot in the chest during 2nd intifada in 2002. Occupation,Oppression and killing still present. pic.twitter.com/nBAj6rBZWP — Abbs Winston (@AbbsWinston) September 12, 2015

Using this, we further searched the Internet and found the same boy in the same posture in the trailer of a Palestinian film titled “The Kingdom of Ants” (Mamlakat al-Naml). The trailer was uploaded on YouTube in 2015 and the boy can be seen at 3 minutes and 38 seconds in the video.

Further searching on YouTube, we found a different clip from the film uploaded in 2012. At 1 minute and 11 seconds into the video, the same boy can be seen pelting stones at security forces.

“The Kingdom of Ants” by Tunisian director Chawki Mejri was released in 2012. The film is based on the Palestinian conflict.

On the other hand, Sunil Sheoran’s image can be seen in the below video report by “Punjab Kesari”. He was reportedly 13 when he was killed in police firing on Jats agitating for reservation benefits.

“India Today” had earlier fact-checked the same image in 2019 when it was circulated as a Palestinian boy shot by the Israeli army.

Hence, it is clear that the image in question is not real, but a still from a Palestinian film.

READ: Fact Check: ‘CNN’ report saying Taliban has banned sanitary napkins is morphed

ALSO READ: Fact Check: This picture of man in burqa in pro-Taliban women’s gathering is morphed

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Owaisi plotting UP elections with Irani? No, this is an old photo