Amid border tensions between India and China in Ladakh, a viral message on social media claims that Beijing has approached the United Nations, pleading that the Narendra Modi government is misusing its power.

Late last month, the Indian Army thwarted Chinese attempts to capture a forward post in eastern Ladakh. This was followed by a firing incident as claimed by both sides. The developments fuelled speculations on social media and multiple users claimed that China has buckled under Indian pressure and approached UN for mediation.

advertisement

Facebook page "Achhe Din" posted an image graphic with pictures of PM Modi and Chinese premier Xi Jinping, where the Hindi caption translates to, "China has pleaded before the United Nations that India is misusing its power. I had voted for the right person."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Till the time of writing this article, China has not approached the UN against India over the ongoing border dispute. However, earlier in May, the UN had expressed concerns over growing tensions between the two world powers.

Several Facebook pages have shared the viral post, the archived versions of which can be seen here, here and here.

The four-month stand-off

The world is closely monitoring the border standoff between India and China as foreign media has been reporting each and every development in detail.

In May, United States President Donald Trump offered to mediate between the two countries and had spoken to PM Modi over phone.

Again in June, after violent clashes broke out between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan, the United Nations urged both sides to "exercise maximum restraint". But so far, China has never approached the UN against India over the ongoing border tensions in Ladakh.

Chinese reaction

Checking the Twitter handle of the Chinese foreign affairs ministry spokesperson, we found several responses to the border crisis, but not a single tweet addressed to the UN recently.

We found that in August, Beijing had insisted on a discussion on Kashmir at the United Nations Security Council at Pakistan's behest, which India firmly rejected. But there are no reports about China approaching the UN over the recent border crisis in Ladakh.

As per reports, India and China have agreed on a five-point plan for resolving the prolonged border face-off in eastern Ladakh.