On 14th August 2019 a user from Facebook named Hindu Shakti shared a post. A video was shared in this post. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan is probably addressing a press conference in this post. But a lot of noise is heard from the rest of the people present with the journalists. Imran got angry with this and ask people to sit down and remain silent.

It is mentioned in the post that:

Pakistan PM Imran Khan was furious over not getting the support from any country on Article 370 and started abusing the journalists.

In this post it is being claimed that after the Government of India scrapped Article 370 from Jammu & Kashmir, Pakistan’s PM Imran Khan was furious over failing to gather support from any other country and he started abusing the journalists in a fit of anger. After the abolition of Article 370, the news of any such press conference has not been heard. So let us know the truth of this video and claim.

Read full story here –‘Hindu Shakti’|

First we took a screenshot of this video and did a Reverse Image Search. We got the same video on dailymotion.com with Yandex results.

ARCHIVE MOTION

This video was uploaded 3 years ago. It is written in the description of this video that Prime Minister Imran Khan got angry while asking his party’s people to maintain silence in a press conference. This video was uploaded 3 years ago but the date is not mentioned. To know the date, we used the key words ‘Imran Khan gets angry at a press conference’ and searched on Google.

Please see the result below. In the results, we got this same video uploaded on YouTube by many users.

A YouTube user named ‘Sherman Chamberlin’ uploaded this video on 17th June 2015. The video is of this press conference only but it has been shot with a different angel.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ke2QW83OrOU

Apart from this, on 2nd March 2017, a user named ‘exciting world’ , on 7th June 2015 a user named ‘video.dunyanews.tv’ and on 19th December 2015 a user named ‘RamiZRamiz’’ uploaded this video.

It is clear from these results that the above mentioned video has been in the public domain since 2015. It means the video is not shot after the abolition of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir. After this, we found out when Imran Khan became the President of Pakistan after searching on Google, we were informed that last year only he has sworn in as the Prime Minister of Pakistan.

This means that when this video was shot; Imran Khan was not the Prime Minister of Pakistan.

It is clear from the research that the video shared in the above post is from Jammu & Kashmir. But the video does not reflect the situation post removal of Article 370. This video is infact 4 years old. Also, Imran Khan was not the Prime Minister of Pakistan during that time.

This research makes it clear that the claim made in the abovementioned video that “Pakistan’s PM Imran Khan was furious over failing to gather support from any other country after the abolition of Article 370, and he abused the journalists in a fit of anger” is absolutely false. This video is four years old and Imran Khan was not the Prime Minister of Pakistan at that time.