Amid the growing number of deaths due to Covid-19, some netizens are claiming that nominees/legal heirs of private firm employees who succumbed to coronavirus may be eligible to receive up to Rs 7 lakh under the Employees Deposit Linked Insurance (EDLI) scheme.

Part of the long social media post says, "Very Important: If you know a colleague who has passed away due to Covid -19. They could be eligible for up to ?7 Lakhs in FREE life insurance cover. How? Via EDLI - Employee Deposit Linked Insurance".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The life insurance policy in question covers the nominees of every employee, irrespective of the cause of death.

The archived versions of similar claims can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

While investigating the claim, we first found out the copy of the gazette notification from the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation's (EPFO) website.

While the first point of the notification states the enhancement of the monetary amount, the third point reads, "The benefit payable under paragraph 22(3) of EDLI Scheme shall be extended to such beneficiaries where the deceased employee was a member of the Fund or a provident fund exempted under Section 17 of the EPF & MP Act aid was in employment for a continuous period of 12 months preceding the month in which he died, irrespective of change of establishment during the said period."

In other words, the scheme is not restricted only for those who die due to Covid.

We found a few media reports on the scheme. But none of them say that the scheme is only applicable to EPFO members who die of Covid.

To further confirm the findings, we got in touch with the Regional PF Commissioner (Grade I) Navendu Rai. "This scheme is applicable for all deceased PF members, who are still in service, irrespective of the nature of death. The scheme was implemented in 1976. Since then, we periodically revise the sum assured on death benefit. The last revision came into effect via notification dated April 29, 2021."

Officials from agencies dealing with PF claims also stated that nature of death is not important to get death benefits under the scheme.

"Nominees need to submit the claim form - Form 5 IF - duly signed and certified by the employer to the EPFO along with the death certificate and bank account details. In case nominee is not enlisted, the application must be made by the legal heir(s). However, if the employer is not available, then the form must be attested by a bank manager, Gazetted Officer, Magistrate, or Local MP or MLA," Avishek Agarwal, a PF expert told India Today.

Therefore, we can conclude that death benefits under EDLI are available to nominees of all working PF members, irrespective of the nature of death.