Three photographs of a very old woman have gone viral on social media and netizens are claiming that she is the oldest living woman in the world, hailing from Pakistan.

Several Facebook users have posted these photos with the claim, “The oldest woman on earth from Pakistan celebrates her 217th birthday on September 29.”

India Today Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) has found that this claim is misleading. Firstly, these three photos are not of the same woman. Secondly, according to the Guinness World Records, Kane Tanaka a Japanese centenarian - is the oldest living female in the world.

advertisement

Archived versions of posts with a similar claim are here, here and here.

AFWA PROBE

SOURCE OF THE IMAGES

With the help of reverse image search, we first found the source of these photos. One of these photos had been taken from a video that has been recently uploaded on YouTube.

The original post claims that this woman is from Pakistan. But the caption of the video claims the woman is 300-year-old and not 217 years. AFWA cannot independently claim the authenticity of the YouTube video, or how old the woman is in the video.

Another photo used in this post is a widely circulated old photo. Several media outlets have claimed that this photo is of Li Chi Yuen, a Chinese herbalist and martial artist. He was born in 1677 and died on May 6, 1933 at the age of 256.

Although we could not confirm the source of the first photo in the post, it is clear that there are several doubts on the authenticity of this claim.

WHO IS THE OLDEST LIVING PERSON IN THE WORLD?

According to Guinness World Records, Kane Tanaka from Japan is the oldest living woman in the world. Born on January 2, 1903 she was 117 years and 41 days old when she was conferred upon this honour on February 12, 2020.

Guinness Records recently updated their book for the oldest living man.

On 10 September, 2021, Spain’s Saturnino de la Fuente Garc­a officially became the oldest person living (male) at the age of 112 years and 211 days. He was born on February 11, 1909 and is six years younger to Kane.

We can thus conclude that the claim mentioned in this Facebook post is misleading.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Rakesh Tikait’s ‘threat’ to media houses is not what it seems

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Is Yohani of ‘Manike Mage Hithe’ fame the new cultural envoy between India, SL?