Delhi MP Udit Raj tweeted a video and claimed that Gujarat BJP MLA Anil Upadhyaya and his goons had beaten up a Dalit boy for buying a new car.





India Today Anti Fake News Room (AFWA) has found that Raj's claim about this video is totally false. The video shared by him is of a family feud, and there is no BJP MLA by the name of Anil Upadhyaya in Gujarat.

advertisement

Delhi MP Udit Raj had merged his Indian Justice Party with the BJP and contested the Lok Sabha election from North West Delhi in 2014. However, Udit Raj did not get a ticket from BJP this time and joined Congress later. On the evening of May 13, Udit Raj tweeted the video along with the message: "Gujarat BJP MLA Anil Upadhyaya and his goons are beating a Dalit boy because they were unable to digest that he bought a new car."

The tweet was deleted by Raj the very next day when more than 1,000 people asked him to do so as the claim was fake. Some people had even tagged the Gujarat Police Twitter handle, asking them to take action against Raj for spreading fake news. But before the tweet was deleted, the damage was done; it was retweeted and liked by hundreds of Twitter users.

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

However, it is not just Raj who shared the video with the misleading claim. Facebook users too had shared the same.

The men in the video were speaking in Gujarati. The man being beaten up kept saying that he had committed a mistake and will never repeat it. The men who beat him up with sticks and smashed his car can be heard saying, "My daughter got many stitches, you damaged her eye. She is not alone." The vehicle featured in the viral video too carries a Gujarat number plate.

With the help of reverse search, AFWA found that the video is from 2017.

According to news report, the man had beaten up his wife after his demand for a car as dowry was not met. The woman's father along with a few relatives then decided to teach the man a lesson and thrashed him in Gandhinagar. According to the report, the woman seen at the end of the viral video is his wife.

Earlier too, this video with the fake claim of BJP MLA went viral and was debunked by SM Hoax Slayer.

AFWA scanned the Internet for BJP MLA by the name of Anil Upadhyaya from Gujarat but could not find any. Lately, there have been many fake claims about the political leader by the name of Anil Upadhyaya beating up people in different parts of the country.