Since the day Taliban captured Kabul, speculations remain high as to what the new dispensation’s stand on India and Kashmir would be. Amid this, a video has gone viral with the claim that the Taliban has warned India on Kashmir after taking control of Afghanistan.

Several Facebook users have posted the video in which a Taliban commander is seen threatening the Narendra Modi government for “challenging” the Mujahideen. “If the Modi government kills one Mujahideen, a hundred Mujahideen will take revenge,” the man says.

advertisement

The Facebook caption along with the video says, “India are you ready: Taliban fighters warning India / India is Taliban Next target”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is two years old. The new Taliban regime has not issued any threat to India so far.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here and here.

Old video resurfaces

With the help of reverse image search, we found that the viral clip is available on the Internet for more than two years. Facebook users from Pakistan had posted the video in February 2019 with anti-India captions.

Several users from Pakistan had also uploaded the same clip around the same time on YouTube. The YouTube title written in Urdu translates to, “The Afghan Taliban’s open warning to India, even if it dares to attack Pakistan”.

The video had emerged at a time the Donald Trump administration was planning to pull out of Afghanistan. The man talking in the viral clip also refers to the possible US pullout.

We could not identify the man in the video as news regarding this was not published widely on mainstream media. It was mostly circulated on social media.

So far, the new Taliban leadership in Kabul has not made any threat against India or Kashmir. At their first press conference, the Taliban spokesperson said no threat will be posed to any country from Afghanistan.

In an exclusive interview with India Today, Taliban spokesperson Mohammad Suhail Shaheen had said the group does not want to be part of the rivalry between India and Pakistan.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral video of a Taliban commander threatening India is not connected to the new dispensation in Afghanistan.