More than 100 children have lost their lives in Bihar's Muzaffarpur and neighbouring districts over the past few days. As per government reports, "Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (AES)/ Japanese Encephalitis (JE)" are the reasons behind the deaths. Several newspaper reports have linked the deaths to lychees.

There is already panic among people about the summer fruit. Many on Facebook and WhatsApp are circulating a message along with a video asking people, particularly children, to stop eating lychee. They claim eating the fruit might cause a life-threatening fever to children, which is "incurable".

advertisement

One viral Facebook post in Hindi by Live india 24x7 says, "For your information: You are all advised to stop eating lychee for now. Never give lychee to your kids; else they will suffer from 'chamki' fever. The health ministry has declared it "incurable". Till the time the virus is in complete control, stay away from consuming lychee."

India Today's Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) has found it to be a misleading claim. As per doctors and the Union health ministry, there could be several factors behind the deaths. There is neither any government advisory on lychee nor has it been declared hazardous or unsafe for human consumption by any credible organisation.

The short video attached with the viral post shows a worm inside a lychee. A male voice warns in Hindi "to think hundred times before eating lychee" as "these worms will make your child fall sick". Till the time of filing this story, the post was shared more than 900 times. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Other Facebook users such as "ghareluhealthtips" and "Ayurveda info" have also shared the post.

Why lychee is being targeted

Muzaffarpur is famous for its lychee orchards and this is the time of the year when the lush red fruits are being harvested in the area. And peculiarly, almost every year since 1995, encephalitis deaths are being reported from this area during this time.

Soon after the deaths of children were reported this year from Muzaffarpur, several newspaper reports related the deaths to lychee.

Media houses have referred to a joint study by scientists from the US and India, published in international medical journal "The Lancet" in 2017.

According to this report, "outbreak of acute encephalopathy in Muzaffarpur is associated with both hypoglycin A and MCPG toxicity". Both these elements are present naturally in lychee.

Since they cause reduction in blood sugar levels during the night, the report recommended "minimising litchi consumption, ensuring receipt of an evening meal and implementing rapid glucose correction for suspected illness" (sic).

Contrarian study

Another joint research by Bangladesh and US scientists on AES published in "The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene" (ASTMH) in 2017 contradicted the study published in "The Lancet". The report concluded that it was not lychee but banned pesticides that caused the deaths.

advertisement

Health ministry's stand on lychee

The Union ministry of health and family affairs has so far published three press releases on the recent AES/JE death in Muzaffarpur.

On June 18, 2019, the ministry said that they have discussed the socio-economic profile of the households which have reported the cases, "their nutrition profiles, issues such as the ongoing heatwave, reported high percentage of hypoglycemia in the children who have died" (sic)

But in none of the press releases or in press conferences addressed by the ministry, any advisory on lychee was issued.

What physicians are saying about lychee

There are news reports that Dr Gopal Shankar, the head of department, Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) in Bihar, where most deaths due to AES/JE have been reported this year, had discarded the lychee theory published by "The Lancet".

Dr KK Agarwal, heart specialist opines that "malnutrition", coupled with eating lychee in empty stomach and skipping evening meal, could be one of the factors behind the deaths. According to him, "there are chemicals in lychee that could affect the blood glucose level the next morning if consumed in empty stomach, skipping meals".

advertisement

Eminent pediatrician Dr Sanjeev Bagai has outrightly discarded that consuming lychee could be the reason behind the deaths. "Eating lychee is not harmful at all, reports relating these deaths with lychee consumption are untrue," he says.

The worm inside the viral video is quite common in any fruit and can be avoided for other health hazards. But it has no relation to AES/JE, doctors say.

Though doctors and researchers are yet to find the exact reason behind AES/JE in Muzaffarpur around this time of the year and whether lychee plays a role or not, but pressing the panic button by social media users asking people to stop consuming the fruit is misleading.