Prime Minister Narendra Modi's penchant for fashionable and colourful suits, kurtas and headgear has always made him stand apart among world leaders and other politicians.

But does he have a particular aversion to Prophet Mohammed's supposedly favourite colour, green? Well, that's what Congress Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor feels.

"Why does he (Modi) refuse to wear the colour green?" the Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram asked at a seminar on 'Standing up to hatred, violence and intolerance in contemporary India' on Sunday. He claimed that the PM had never worn any green dress.

Photos showing PM Modi in green clothes.

advertisement

"You have seen him in various kinds of hilarious extraordinary outfits. But still he always says no to one; why doesn't he wear the colour green?" Tharoor said, claiming that Modi "identifies the colour with Muslim appeasement".

ALSO READ | PM reveals who designed Modi kurta

India Today TV's fact check team took a look at Modi's formal wear collection of last four years. The PM could be seen in a green Malaysian jacket, or a traditional tang suit, while attending a gala dinner hosted by then-Malaysian PM Najib Razak on the sidelines of the ASEAN summit in Kuala Lumpur in 2015.

In Modi's biography 'Narendra Nodi: The man, the times', writer Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay mentions about the PM's preference for colours regarding his costumes. The book refers to Chauhan Brothers of Ahmedabad--owners of designer clothing brand Jade Blue.

Bipin and Jitender Chauhan, who had begun their business from a very humble background of Ahmedabad, are regarded as one of Modi's stylists. In one of its chapters, 'The Modi Kurta', the author quoted Bipin.

"Bipin Chauhan said Modi actually does not ever wear green and is very careful about black colour as well. He avoids anything that is jet black, but is comfortable wearing black stripes in the evenings. This may sound as the most predictable answer for an oft-repeated question, but saffron is indeed Modi's favourite colour."

India Today TV contacted the owner of Jade Blue and Bipin to clarify Modi's personal stand on colour green. According to Mukhopadhyay, "When Modi first walked into the Chauhans' showroom, they had no celebrity clients. Modi was also just an emerging leader moving around the town on a scooter (from the book 'Narendra Modi: The man, the times)."

Does Modi have an aversion to colour green because it is purportedly associated with Muslims? "It is a wrong assumption; the PM has no such aversion to the colour," Bipin said.

But has he never worn anything green as quoted in the book?

"Green is normally not a very favourable colour among men in India. How many male celebrities you find wearing green? Not many," Chauhan answered, adding, "The PM loves to wear light shades of ivory and light cream."

advertisement

India Today TV also tried to look for any comment Modi made on colour green as claimed by Tharoor. No, the PM didn't.

ALSO READ | Modi copying clothes worn by others: Akhilesh