The recently concluded G7 summit was the first face-to-face meeting of participating heads of states since the Covid pandemic began. Leaders of the world’s economic superpowers met at Cornwall, England, from June 11-13 to discuss a range of global issues.

However, the summit has come under heavy criticism on social media, with many users claiming world leaders openly flouted Covid restrictions. Several snapshots of Queen Elizabeth, Prince Charles, Boris Johnson, Joe Biden and Emmanuel Macron, among others, show them without masks and in close proximity.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that though there are some pictures of leaders without masks and sans social distancing, the overall summit was conducted in a Covid-secure manner. Participants underwent regular Covid tests and all world leaders were already vaccinated, at least partially. Some events were held outdoors and maximum participants were limited to 30.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

What AFWA found

Going through different media reports and the official Twitter handle of G-7, it is evident that participants followed the United Kingdom’s Covid protocols.

However, some pictures of a beach barbeque at a seaside resort in Cornwall after the second day of talks drew criticisms that the leaders did not comply with Covid norms.

UK PM Boris Johnson’s spokesman Max Blain told the “Associated Press” there were fewer than 30 guests at the barbeque in accordance with the country’s restrictions.

“It was done in an entirely Covid-secure way within the existing rules. You can see it was a relaxed atmosphere and gave the leaders a chance to discuss outside of a formal setting,” Blain said.

Multiple photographs carried in media reports and on the “Getty Images” website show world leaders greeting each other with elbow bumps, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.

In a statement to “USA Today”, a UK cabinet spokesperson said, “All attendees and delegations have been required to follow UK public health regulations throughout the meeting. We’ve required them to respect strict Covid-secure measures, including daily testing before arrival and regularly throughout the Summit.”

There were some scares too.

At the G7 foreign ministers’ meeting last month, the entire Indian delegation went into 10 days of self-isolation after two members of the team tested positive during the summit.

However, the social media claim that world leaders openly flouted Covid protocols during the recently concluded G7 summit is misleading.

READ: Fact Check: Singapore has not changed Covid treatment protocols challenging WHO findings

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Don’t trust this hoax video, rapid antigen tests are not pre-decided