The creator confirmed to us that the video was created by taking inspiration from the original 3D animation movie of the Ram Temple.

A video showing a three dimensional video of a grand temple with “Shree Ram Janmbhoomi” written on its entrance is widely circulating on social media with the claim that it shows the 3D visuals of the Ram Mandir to be built in Ayodhya released officially .

The caption of the video states, “We are building Ayodhya, look at the grand temple.”

The video is also viral in Hindi with the caption, “अयोध्या में बन रहा, श्री राम का भव्य मंदिर |”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google whose results led us to a YouTube video published on 3 November 2021 by Shivaji Home Design. The caption of the video states “Bhavya Ayodhya Ram Mandir 3D Animation 3d walk through #ShivajiHomeDesign.” Shivaji Home Design Team by their designer named Rohit Sankhla created this video.

Fact Crescendo contacted Shivaji Home Design who confirmed to us that this video is not a government-approved design. He has created it after taking inspiration of the 3D rendered Ram temple model.

Next, we came across a tweet by Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra on 13 February 2022 that stated, “All of you must be curious about how a grand temple will look like after its construction on the birthplace of Lord Shri Ram. To give you an idea of this grand and divine masterpiece, we have tried to showcase it through a 3D video.”

आप सबको निश्चित ही यह उत्कंठा रहती होगी कि प्रभु श्रीराम की जन्मभूमि पर भव्य मंदिर बनने पर कैसा दिखेगा।



आपको इस भव्य और दिव्य कृति का पूर्वाभास देने के लिए हमने एक 3D वीडियो के माध्यम से उसे प्रदर्शित करने का प्रयास किया है।



जय श्री राम!https://t.co/FiBNYJgooo — Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra (@ShriRamTeerth) February 13, 2022

The video also premiered on Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra’s YouTube channel on 13 January 2022. The description states, “The Construction of Grand and Divine Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Temple is going on in full swing. The 3D animation movie is describing the detailed process of the construction of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Temple.”

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the video to be Misleading. The viral video does not show the official 3D visuals of the Ram Mandir under construction in Ayodhya. The video was created by taking inspiration from the original 3D animation movie of the Ram Temple.