A video showing a few villagers protesting against a man likely a political leader has gone viral with the claim that the group was resisting a two-time BJP MLA’s entry into the Uttar Pradesh village.

Several Facebook users have posted this video with the claim in Hindi, which translates to: “Wind of change is blowing in Uttar Pradesh. Villagers are resisting BJP workers and have forced a two-time MLA to return.”

advertisement

The archived versions of posts with the same videos and similar claim can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. This short clip is from Bihar and the man - against whom the villagers are protesting - is Maheshwar Hazari. He is a JD(U) MLA and at present the Deputy Speaker of the Bihar Assembly.

AFWA PROBE

With the help of Invid and reverse image search, we found the video on YouTube.

Although the name of the politician is not mentioned in the caption of the video, it reads in Hindi: “People of Kalyanpur Vidhan Sabha seeking reply from the MLA of 10 years.”

Taking a cue from this we carried out a keyword search and found a newspaper report as well.

The report carries a photo that is similar to the video footage of the viral post.

The October 2020 report states: Planning and Development Minister Maheshwar Hazari faced resistance from locals in Samastipur, Bihar when he went there to ask for votes.

Even RJD leader and opposition leader in Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had shared this video on his Twitter handle.

WHO IS MAHESHWAR HAZARI?

Maheshwar Hazari, 59, was elected to the 15th Lok Sabha from Samastipur constituency in Bihar in 2009.

Hazari is a four-time MLA and was elected in 2005 (February and October), 2015 and 2020 as well.

He is the cousin of former Union minister Late Ram Vilas Paswan and had served as the minister of urban development and housing as well as planning and development in the previous Nitish Kumar government.

advertisement

Presently, he is an MLA from Kalyanpur in Samstipur district and the present deputy speaker of the Bihar Assembly.

Hence, we can conclude that this video is not legitimate. The video has no connection with Uttar Pradesh. It was shot in Bihar in October 2020 when villagers were protesting against Kalyanpur MLA Maheshwar Hazari.

READ | Fact Check: Video from Bangladesh circulated as clashes between Hindu-Muslim groups in WB

ALSO READ | Fact Check: This photo of Punjab CM Channi climbing up an electricity pole is old