Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat lost his life in a chopper crash on Wednesday in Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor. His wife and 11 other people also passed away in the mishap, while the pilot is struggling for his life till the last reports came in.

While condolences poured out on social media, many netizens shared images and videos of crashed helicopters, claiming them to be of the Coonoor mishap. Two such images can be seen below.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that these images are old and not of the Coonoor chopper crash. While the first image is from a 2019 incident in Poonch, the second has been in circulation since 2020 as from Colombia.

Image 1

With the help of Google reverse search, we found the same image carried by multiple media reports in 2019. As per the reports, the image shows a Dhruv Advanced Light Helicopter that crashed due to technical snag at Poonch in Jammu and Kashmir in October 2019.

According to an NDTV report, the incident took place when then Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Ranbir Singh was returning from a forward location in the 16 Corps area of operations near Line of Control (LoC). No casualties were reported in the incident.

A video report about the incident can be seen below.

Image 2

We found that the second image is in circulation since at least July 2020 and multiple media outlets at that time had carried the picture as of a military chopper crash in Colombia, South America.

According to reports, at least nine people were killed and six injured after a military helicopter carrying 17 people crashed in southeast Colombia in July 2020.

The incident was also reported by “El Tiempo”, a national newspaper in Colombia. But while it is clear that the image is over a year old, we could not independently verify the source of the picture.

On the other hand, some visuals from the Coonoor chopper crash can be seen below.

Hence, it is clear that the images in question are old and not related to the Coonoor mishap.

READ: Fact Check: Shops caught fire due to short circuit, video shared as of Nagaland violence

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Namaaz, yoga and more! Controversial statement wrongly attributed to Priyanka Gandhi

WATCH: Fact Check Video: Old video from Colombia falsely linked to Nagaland civilian killings