A tweet by Bollywood actor Ajaz Khan on mob lynching is going viral on social media. Khan tweeted the picture of an injured man and claimed that a mob in Bihar's Mahua thrashed a Muslim teacher named Abu Kamil.

Twitter user Prashant Patel Umrao questioned the claim and said Abu Kamil raped a girl and was thrashed by members of his own community.

advertisement

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Abu Kamil was beaten up on suspicion of theft and not for rape.

Till the filing of this story, Umrao's tweet was retweeted more than 6,700 times. Facebook page 'Shankh Naad' had also shared Khan's tweet and claimed that Abu Kamil was thrashed for raping a girl. It, however, deleted the post later.

AFWA probe

Using keywords, AFWA searched the Internet for news regarding the incident and came across a report by 'Dainik Bhaskar'. According to this report, the incident took place on September 22 in Bihar's Hajipur.

The report says that Shadab a.k.a Abu Kamil runs a coaching centre in Patna. On Sunday, September 22, as he was returning to his home in Vaishali, he was provided lift by some men in a car. These men then thrashed and looted him, and threw him from the car on the roadside.

Worse, villagers nearby, instead of helping him, thrashed him further mistaking him to be a thief. Kamil started bleeding profusely due to the beatings. The video of the incident went viral on social media.

This incident was covered by a website called GTV too.

To confirm the sequence of events, we spoke to Hajipur sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Raghav Dayal. He said, "To link the incident with rape is baseless. Abu Kamil was beaten up by the mob on suspicions of theft. We have arrested two people."

We even contacted the victim's family. Kamil's brother said he is admitted in hospital and out of danger.

Therefore, it can be concluded that Kamil was beaten up on suspicions of theft and the claim that he was beaten up for raping a girl is baseless.

(With inputs from Sandeep Anand in Hajipur)