A series of pictures of a woman one from her wedding and the others showing bruises on her face and back is viral on social media with the claim that she is a “victim” of “love jihad” in Kerala.

The caption in Hindi along with the pictures translates to, “One more girl became a victim of love jihad in Kerala. Every girl initially says her lover is not like other Muslims. But when their eyes finally open, they are either murdered and stuffed in a suitcase, or sold to a brothel, or become a baby-producing machine.”

Social media users claim these pictures show a victim of love jihad in Kerala. (Photo: Facebook)

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the image to be misleading. The woman from Dhaka in Bangladesh was regularly tortured by her husband and in-laws for dowry. No credible news sources have reported that she was a Hindu who converted to Islam.

The archived version of similar claims can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we found the same picture of the woman in bridal wear in a report by “Dhaka Tribune”.

According to this report published on June 26, the woman is Sumaiya Hasan, a housewife in Dhaka, who was tortured by her husband Jahid Hasan and his parents over dowry. Police took Jahid into custody following the incident.

Dhaka police said, as per the report, that Sumaiya and Jahid met on Facebook five years ago and later got married. Earlier too, she had filed a complaint against her husband for domestic violence.

On June 27, “Dhaka Tribune” published another report, detailing a Facebook post that Sumaiya had uploaded the previous day. The viral picture with bruises on the woman’s face can be seen in this report.

According to the report, alleging torture by her husband and in-laws, Sumaiya had posted six pictures showing the bruises on her body. While this Facebook post was deleted, we found another post by her in Bengali, uploaded on June 27, where she says the matter has been resolved and she has reconciled with her husband, considering the future of their eight-month-old daughter. She also says no case was filed against her husband.

In both the news reports and in Sumaiya’s Facebook post, there is no mention of her being a Hindu who converted to Islam.

Hence, it is clear that the viral pictures are not of a victim of love jihad from Kerala, but a woman from Bangladesh who was tortured by her husband and in-laws over dowry.