A video of Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha has gone viral with the claim that he threatened supporters of Deep Sidhu because the now-dead actor and activist allegedly spoke against the AAP.

Sidhu, who met his demise on February 15 in a road accident, was critical of the AAP.

Several Facebook users shared a video clip of Chadha’s press conference, where he can be heard saying, “... We'll file defamation cases against all of them. Once we’re in power, we'll bring them to justice. Just wait, it's only a matter of days. After March 10, we'll deal with them one by one. Spread the word, after March 10, we'll deal with each one of them.”

advertisement

This clip has gone viral with a text embedded on it. Written in Punjabi, it translates to, “Jhaadu Gang is threatening those who are speaking in favour of Deep Sidhu. How will they behave towards the Sikhs if they are elected?”.

The Facebook caption reads, “They've started showing their status (aukaat). Look at Raghav Chadha threatening those who speak in favour of Deep Sidhu.”

The India Today Anti-Fake News War Room ( AFWA) found that the viral clip is edited and presented with a misleading colour. In the original clip, Raghav Chadha was talking about Gurtej Pannu, a former AAP leader who had accused the party of taking money in exchange for tickets in the Punjab assembly polls.

What did Raghav Chadha say?

With the combination of reverse image and keywords search, we found the original video of Raghav Chadha’s press conference shared on the Aam Aadmi Party’s YouTube channel on February 17, 2022.

At the 19.43-minute mark, one can hear and see the part shared in the viral clip. But to understand the context of his words, one has to rewind at least one minute. At the 18.43-minute mark, a journalist asked Chadha about the allegations put forward by Pannu.

The reporter spoke about AAP leaders who supposedly helped the party grow but were not given the tickets. One of them was Gurtej Pannu. The reporter said that Pannu, in a recent press conference, where he played an audio recording belonging to a certain advocate Amardeep Kaur. In the recording, it was alleged that tickets in Punjab were given in exchange for money. The reporter said she named Kulwant Singh in the recording.

Chadha brushed off the allegations and said, “My answer is very simple. No amount of money and no one can buy Arvind Kejriwal, the AAP, or Raghav Chadha.” It’s after this point that the viral clip’s section starts.

Political context

Former AAP district president Gurtej Pannu earlier accused the party of selling tickets to hopefuls in the Punjab assembly polls. A few days ago, during a press conference in Chandigarh, he had shafted the audio clip in question.

advertisement

Chadha’s answer to those allegations was then pushed as his comments on those supporting Deep Sidhu.

While it has been widely reported that the AAP and Deep Sidhu have been critical of each other openly in the past, the viral clip’s claims are not factual.

(With input from Yash Mittal)