An image of a letter written by AYUSH Ministry to ‘Patanjali’ MD Acharya Balakrishna is doing the rounds on social media claiming that the Ministry has approved ‘Coronil’ medicine. Recently ‘Coronil’ and ‘Shwashari’ were launched by Patanjali’ claiming it to be an Ayurvedic cure for treating COVID-19. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

The archived version of the post can be found here.

Claim: Letter showing AYUSH Ministry approval for Patanjali’s COVID-19 medicine ‘Coronil’. Fact: In the letter, it is nowhere mentioned that AYUSH Ministry has approved Patanjali’s medicine ‘Coronil’ as a cure for treating COVID-19. The ministry said that they will evaluate the research related documents submitted by Patanjali regarding ‘Coronil’. The letter was also posted by Patanjali MD Acharya Balakrishna on his social media accounts but he did not mention anything about getting approval. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

On 23 June 2020, ‘Patanjali’ launched the medicine ‘Coronil’ and ‘Swasari’ claiming it to be an Ayurvedic cure for treating COVID-19. But AYUSH Ministry asked ‘Patanjali’ to stop advertising the medicine as a cure for COVID-19 as it does not know the facts related to the claim and details of the studies carried out to test the new medicine. The Ministry asked Patanjali to provide the names and compositions of the preparations being claimed as cures for COVID-19, details of the sites where the research was carried out, protocol followed, the sample size used, the clearance obtained from the Institutional Ethics Committee (IEC) to conduct the research, registration with CTRI and the results data of study.

In the letter seen in the post, the AYUSH ministry wrote to ‘Patanjali’ MD Acharya Balakrishna acknowledging the receipt of the documents it had asked for. In the letter, the ministry said that it will evaluate the studies of ‘Patanjali’ regarding the medicine ‘Coronyl’. It is nowhere mentioned that the AYUSH Ministry has approved Patanjali’s medicine ‘Coronyl’ as a cure for treating COVID-19. The letter was also tweeted by ‘Patanjali’ MD Acharya Balakrishna on his social media accounts but he did not mention anything about getting approval.

To sum it up, Patanjali Ayurved Ltd has not received approval from Ministry of AYUSH for its COVID-19 medicine ‘Coronil’ and ‘Swasari’.

Did you watch our new video?