Amid the surge in coronavirus cases in Bengaluru, a video showing a large number of people crammed in a small space is being circulated on social media with the claim that this is the condition of Bengaluru’s Victoria Hospital. It is also being claimed that no beds are available in the hospital now. Victoria is a government-run hospital in the Karnataka capital.

advertisement

In the video, a man, who claims to be Dr Rana Singh, can be heard describing the visuals to his senior while making a video. The man is heard saying that more than a hundred patients are gathered at Room no. 5 of the outpatient department, and it is a threat to all the doctors, patients and other staff at the hospital (due to lack of social distancing).

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. The video is from Patna’s Mahavir Cancer Sansthan.

One Facebook user captioned the video as, “This is the small example of Bangalore situation, don’t go outside. Try to avoid max. Be safe u n ur family along with our neighbourhood. Patients standing at Victoria Hospital. No beds available.”

Many social media users have shared the video with the wrong claim. Some have also claimed that this is a video from a hospital in Delhi. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Using related keywords, we found a tweet wherein Victoria Hospital authorities refuted the claim that the video is from their hospital. As per “Bangalore Mirror”, “Dr CR Jayanthi, director-cum-dean of the medical institution has stepped forward to clear the misconception stating that the video is from AIIMS Patna.”

Bengaluru Police also arrested a man for circulating this fake news.

Many YouTube channels and news websites said that the video is from AIIMS Patna. Former Union minister and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party chief Upendra Kushwaha had also tweeted the video.

However, when we reached out to the Superintendent of AIIMS Patna, Dr CM Singh, for authentication, he said the video is not from his hospital.

During the investigation, we had also found that some users claimed the video to be from Mahavir Cancer Sansthan (MCS) in Patna.

To verify the same, AFWA reached out to the cancer institute. The hospital’s trustee Acharya Kishore Kunal and assistant director Dr Manisha Singh confirmed that the video is from MCS. They said the hospital was shut for a week after some patients and staff at MCS tested positive for Covid-19.

advertisement

When the hospital reopened on July 15 after sanitisation, a large number of patients rushed into the OPD for treatment and tests related to cancer. This worried Dr Rana Singh and he made the video to apprise his seniors of the situation, said Dr Manisha Singh.

Dr Manisha also told us that they immediately decided to shut the hospital again due to the threat of coronavirus and will reopen it with proper arrangements. The hospital is temporarily closed now.

Hence, it can be concluded that the video showing a large number of people packed in a small space is not from a hospital in Bengaluru, but from Patna.

As per “covid19india.org”, till July 18, Bengaluru had almost 30,000 cases and 630 deaths. Patna had nearly 3,600 cases and 30 deaths.