Days after the Glastonbury Festival ended in England, a collage of four photos showing piles of trash on the grounds went viral on social media. One of the photos is that of celebrated environmental activist Greta Thunberg.

While sharing this set of photos, people criticised Thunberg. They claimed that these photos were from around the Pyramid Stage in the Glastonbury Festival after Thunberg's “performance”.

advertisement

Archived versions of these posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA found these posts to be misleading as some of the photos were more than a decade old and not related to the recent festival.

Let us get into them one by one.

The first photo

The first image, which shows some abandoned chairs and plastics on the ground, is nearly nine years old. A reverse search took us to the stock image and photography website Alamy.

While the Alamy link did not have many details, it said that the photo was taken on August 21, 2013. The photo’s title “20130821RocknHeimCamp” hinted that the photo was from Rock'n'Heim, a German music festival that was organised annually between 2013 and 2015. Thus, we concluded this had nothing to do with the Glastonbury Festival or Thunberg.

The second photo

The second photo featuring Thunberg is from the Glastonbury festival 2022. With the help of a reverse image search, we were able to spot the same image in a BBC report.

A subsequent search about Greta's appearance at the event led us to another report confirming that she spoke from the festival's Pyramid Stage on the afternoon of June 25. There, she spoke to people about society’s "historic responsibility" to tackle the global climate crisis.

The third photo

While the third photo shows the aftermath of the Glastonbury Festival, it’s not recent at all. The photograph was taken seven years ago in 2015.

We found the original image in a DailyMail report from June 29, 2015. The caption of the image read "Abandoned: After more than 100,000 people packed in to watch Lionel Richie perform last night, the Pyramid Stage cuts a lonely figure."

The fourth photo

The fourth photo is the oldest and was shot on June 27, 2011, in front of the Pyramid Stage of the Glastonbury festival.

As per Alamy, the original photo was taken by a photographer called Ben Birchall. A Mirror report mentioned that volunteers carried out a cleaning operation on June 27, a day after the five-day-long festival ended this year. The official Twitter account of the Glastonbury Festival also shared a photo of the cleaned-up area of the concert ground.

advertisement The litter pickers have already been doing an amazing job. pic.twitter.com/wbrejrqnPq — Glastonbury Live (@GlastoLive) June 27, 2022

Thus, we concluded that the photos of garbage being shared along with Thunberg had nothing to do with the environmental activist’s appearance at the Glastonbury Festival 2022.