A farewell ceremony in honour of outgoing President Ram Nath Kovind was organised on July 23, 2022, at the Central Hall of the Parliament. His last working day in the office was July 24, 2022, as newly elected President Droupadi Murmu took charge. The ceremony was attended by the Prime Minister, the Vice-President, and other Members of Parliament.

In this backdrop, a viral video, showing the Prime Minister Narendra Modi ignoring President Kovind while he greets him with folded hands, is doing rounds on social media.

A Facebook user posted the viral video with the caption: मुझे मोदी जी की ये अदा बहुत पसंद है। सिद्धांतहीन, चाटुकार, मौकापरस्त, नालायकों से ज़्यादा तवज्जो वे हमेशा कैमरा को ही देते हैं। जो अपने समुदाय का न हुआ… जो पूरे कार्यकाल में अपने पद के अनुसार व्यवहार न कर सका… जिसने अपने पूरे कार्यकाल से अपने ही समुदाय की मेधा को कलंकित किया… इससे बेहतर कैमरा ही भला! कभी अम्बेडकर की मेधा को दलित मेधा के आदर्श के रूप में प्रस्तुत किया जाता था। अब हम पर राम नाथ कोविंद जी भी हैं। जब अम्बेडकर जी का नाम लिया जाएगा तो कोविंद की भी याद दिलाई जाएगी। लाइन में मुर्मू जी भी रहेंगी। और हाँ ज़ोर से बोलो….. जय भीम!

(English Translation: I really like this style of Modi Ji. He always gives more attention to the camera than the idiot, sycophantic, opportunistic, or incompetent. The one who did not belong to his community…. Who could not behave according to his position throughout his tenure…. Who stigmatized the intellect of his own community throughout his entire tenure…. Better camera than this! Ambedkar’s intellect was once presented as an ideal of Dalit intelligence. Now Ram Nath Kovind ji is also upon us. When Ambedkar’s name is taken, Kovind will also be reminded. Murmu ji will also be in the line. And yes say it out loud….. Jai Bhim!)

You can watch the video here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the viral video and found it to be misleading

On analysing the video, we found the logo of Sansad TV at the top left corner of the frame. Established in 2021, by merging Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha Television, Sansad TV is the Parliamentary affairs channel of India.

Google Keyword Search led us to a video dated July 23, 2022, published on the official YouTube channel of the public broadcaster. The video was titled: President Kovind’s departure from the Central Hall of Parliament I Farewell function.

At the beginning of the video, President Kovind can be seen getting down from the stage accompanied by Vice President Venkaiah Naidu. He then walks toward the attendees to greet them. At the 00:59 seconds mark, he meets and greets Prime Minister Modi with folded hands and PM greets him back in the same manner, as opposed to what’s shown in the viral video.

The President then walked past him to greet Union Minister Piyush Goyal which is when PM Modi was filmed looking at cameras on the side, at the 01:03 mark.

Our search then led us to the verified social media handles of the President of India. Multiple photos from the event were posted on July 23, 2022. One of the photos shows the Prime Minister greeting President Kovind. It was posted on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

The image shared online on President Kovind’s handles match exactly to the video frame at 00:59, thereby confirming that the PM greeted him with folded hands.

Therefore, based on our investigation, we can conclusively say that the viral video showing Prime Minister Modi ‘ignoring’ outgoing President Ram Nath Kovind is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news