Spread the truth:

Claim 1: “भगवा आतंकवादी- नाम है मोहम्मद निसार!! माथे पर टिका और टीशर्ट भी देखिए, समझ रहे हो न आपलोग”

Translation: “Saffron Terrorist- Name is Mohammad Nisar. He has a ‘tika’ on his forehead, and look at the saffron T-shirt. I hope you understand.”

Claim 2: “वाइरस अपना नेचर बदल रहा है. अब आप तिलक और कपड़ों से भी नही पहचान सकते. आपसे अनुरोध है कि भाईचारा बनाये रखें”

Translation: “The virus is changing its nature, you can not identify it with ‘tika’ and dresses, I request you to stay in harmony.”

A video is going viral on social media claiming that a man caught by the police, was creating havoc by pelting stones. The video shows him injured while held by the police. The posts viral are giving it a communal angle as well as relating it to the COVID-19 and the lockdown that has followed.

The video has been shared extensively on social media,

FACEBOOK

The video shared by this account, with the caption “भगवा आतंकवादी- नाम है मोहम्मद निसार!! माथे पर टिका और टीशर्ट भी देखिए, समझ रहे हो न आपलोग” has over 4000 shares and 101K views,

Archive

While this particular user posted it with the caption, ““वाइरस अपना नेचर बदल रहा है. अब आप तिलक और कपड़ों से भी नही पहचान सकते. आपसे अनुरोध है कि भाईचारा बनाये रखें”

Archive

Many people have been sharing the video,

TWITTER

भगवा आतंकवादी- नाम है मोहम्मद निसार!!

माथे पर टिका और टीशर्ट भी देखिए

समझ रहे हो न आपलोग इनकी साजिस है भगवा के खिलाफ pic.twitter.com/eWd9YKeSVA — Vikash Kumar (@Vikashpatel9035) April 30, 2020

Archive

Archive

Truth

After running the screenshots of the video on Google Reverse Image Search. It led us to a news bulletin by News18, where the accused can be seen detained by the cops, while profusely bleeding from the head. The video is uploaded on May 12, 2019, on YouTube.

At 2 minutes and 19 seconds in the above news report, the same man in the viral videos can be seen held by police.

According to The Times Of India report, clashes broke out between Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) outside a polling booth in Jugsalai, Jharkhand on May 12th, 2019, due to which the district administration had deployed heavy police in the area, and 70 were identified and 2 people were held.

The police had to resort to lathi charging and firing teargas shells in the area.

The video had also gone viral during the 2019 General Elections claiming that an All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) party worker had pelted stones wearing a saffron shirt. The claim, however, was later debunked by various fact-checkers that in reality, the video is from Jugsalai, Jharkhand, and not Kolkata and that party workers had clashed, resulting in violence.

Therefore, the claims of it relating to the COVID-19, or relating it to the lockdown by giving it a communal angle is completely false. The video is almost a year old and the incident was of the party workers clashing during the Lok Sabha elections in 2019.

Related