With theatres remaining shut for several months now, several multiplex players are eyeing the concept of drive-in or open-air movie screening, as per media reports.

Meanwhile, many on social media are claiming that theatres across India would be reopened on October 1.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. Till the filing of this article, the government has not announced any date for reopening theatres in the country.

advertisement

The claim is being widely shared on Facebook and Twitter. The archived version can be seen here.

Many websites have also published articles based on this claim.

Sharing a news report making this claim, a Twitter user wrote, “Good news for Cinema industry. As Central Home minister Amit Shah has given green signal for Cinemas to reopen from October 1st. Cinema opening guidelines will be shared by second week of September.”

AFWA probe

According to Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, cinema halls will remain closed. However, open-air threatres will be permitted to resume operations from September 21.

The Press Information Bureau has also refuted the claim, saying the Home Ministry has not taken any decision on reopening cinema halls yet.

Claim:A Media report has claimed that Home Ministry has ordered reopening of cinema halls across the country from 1st October with the imposition of strict regulations. #PIBFactCheck: This claim is #Fake. No decision has been taken by @HMOIndia on reopening the cinema halls yet pic.twitter.com/hc903cfXnm — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) September 14, 2020

On September 15, the Multiplex Association of India appealed to the government to urgently allow reopening of movie theatres. The association said the sector provides employment to around 2 lakh people, and in the last six months, it has lost around Rs 9,000 crore.

It is obvious that had the government allowed reopening of theatres from next month, the association wouldn’t have issued such an appeal.

Around 10-12 per cent theatres have shut permanently since lockdown began, as per a report in Livemint.

We did not find any government order or credible media report to support the claim that cinema halls are reopening from October 1.