With Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announcing welfare measures, including a financial package, for poor to help them during the lockdown period, a social media post attributing Jio has gone viral.

Many people on WhatsApp have shared a link claiming that by clicking on it, people will get Rs 498 as free recharge.

One of the social media users claims in Hindi that translates to, At this time of crisis, Jio is offering a free recharge of Rs 498. Click the link below to get the free recharge done. The offer is valid till 31st March.

advertisement

A Facebook user also claims, Jio free recharge Rs 498 all users.

Many people have shared different links with the same claim.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claims to be false.

Though Jio has taken a few initiatives and started a campaign as to how to fight novel coronavirus, it has nothing to do with this claim.

We have seen that people are sharing different links to get the recharge done. Like there is one link jionewoffer.online.

Another link is jiofreerecharges.online. We clicked all the links which directed us to a website where Mukesh Ambani's profile has been used. The site asks for the customer's Jio mobile number and name. People posted this on Twitter as well. One Twitter user tagged Jio on his Twitter handle to get clarification and Jio officially denied the claim on their official Twitter handle.

Hello Team Jio,

Is this news correct as giving Jio free recharge,link are going to viral.

Please confirm ?@reliancejio pic.twitter.com/02a8XPseWj SACHIN KUMAR SINGH (@SINGH_SACHIN_KR) March 24, 2020

In reply, Jio stated, Jio does not send such messages/calls. All Jio offer related information is transparently available in your MyJio app or on http://Jio.com. Pls watch out for spam messages & scammers Kashypi

Jio does not send such messages/calls. All Jio offer related information is transparently available in your MyJio app or on https://t.co/j7Fw92n4et. Pls watch out for spam messages & scammers Kashypi JioCare (@JioCare) March 24, 2020

Hence, it can be said the claim that Jio is offering Rs 498 as free recharge till March 31 is false.