Online users shared a video claiming Oklahoma City McDonald’s meat factory stored human meat in their freezers and trucks ready to be shipped nationwide.

The one-minute thirty-nine-second video includes an overlay of text which reads, “Oklahoma City – First Horse meat, then the mysterious “pink slime,” now human meat? A shocking discovery has been made in an Oklahoma City McDonald’s meat factory and other McDonald’s meat factories nationwide. Meat inspectors reportedly found, what appeared to be, human meat stored in the meat factory freezers of an Oklahoma City meat factory and human meat already in trucks right outside the factory ready to be shipped to McDonald’s restaurants.”

The video’s text further reads, “Health inspectors immediately demanded inspection in various McDonald’s meat factories across the country and horrifyingly found human meat in about 90% of the factories inspected thus far. The United States Department of Agriculture has seized McDonald’s production and shipping and will call for more meat factory inspections and restaurant inspections…”

The video can be seen below.

Video claiming Oklahoma City McDonald’s meat factory stored human meat in their freezers and trucks ready to be shipped nationwide

Newschecker received this claim on its Whatsapp tip line for verification.

Many users on Twitter and Facebook have also shared the claim about McDonald’s using and storing human meat in their freezers.

One such Twitter user’s caption in reference to this claim reads, “​​That is almost evident. I fully concur that human meat is disposed to McDonald’s. The evidence of the Elites human trafficking has to be concealed somehow.”

Also Read: News Reports On Mirabai’s Chances Of Bagging Gold Medal ‘If China’s Hou Fails Doping Test’ Are Misleading

Fact Check / Verification

Taking a cue from the claim’s video (1:00 timestamp) we looked for the website, Huzlers. We found that the ‘About Us’ section of Huzlers.com reads, “Huzlers is a satirical and fictional entertainment blog producing content in such a complex way that it could not conveniently be presented or represented anywhere else but Huzlers!”

Screenshot of ‘About Us’ page on Huzlers.com

Using a keyword search on Huzlers.com we found an article titled, “McDonalds Exposed For Using Human Meat! (Must Watch Video)” which includes the claim’s text.

Screenshot of McDonald’s human meat article on Huzlers.com

Snopes published a fact-check on the ‘McDonald’s human meat’ Huzlers article on 7 April 2014. Huzlers allows users to “Create your own news prank and trick your friends by sharing it,” reads the Snopes fact-check.

Additionally, in response to a user’s query about human meat being used in their food, McDonald’s clarified that “we do not have any human meat in our burgers. We would like to assure you that we only use 100% pure, Halal beef and chicken in our food. That’s it! We source our beef from BRF in Abu Dhabi and chicken from McFood in Malaysia who abide by our strict quality, safety and Halal standards.”

Also Read: Viral Image Of French President Macron As A Human Wreath Is Morphed

Conclusion

Our research makes it clear that McDonald’s doesn’t use human meat nor does the Oklahoma City McDonald’s meat factory store human meat in their freezers. This claim originated from a satire website Huzlers.com but unfortunately, it has been widely shared online as genuine news.

Result: False

Our Sources

Huzlers.com: https://www.huzlers.com/about-us/

Snopes: https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/swap-meat/?utm_source=agorapulse&utm_campaign=mail&fbclid=IwAR1m6G8h7O6062mIwrycvbGN7blwcw4__EMloNq3LPyYtMtE4o_ZrM8uH8A

McDonald’s: https://www.mcdonalds.com/om/en-om/your-right-to-know/2317-are-you-using-humans-meat-in-the-food.html

If you would like us to fact-check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 or email us at checkthis@newschecker.in. You can also visit the Contact Us page and fill the form.