Uttarakhand’s Nainital has always been a cherished destination for travellers. The hill station has witnessed an episode of communal tension recently. Amid this, a collage of two images that claim to compare the current scenario in Nainital with that 12 years ago has gone viral on social media.

The first image of the collage captioned "Nainital 2010," showed a road with pedestrians. The second image, titled "Nainital 2022," had a few hundred Muslims offering prayers publicly.

advertisement

The collage is shared by many on Twitter and Facebook with captions like "Hindu families are brainwashed by 'hum do humare do'. This weakens the family system. Day by day, we are losing to them." Here, "them" refers to the Muslim community.

Archived versions of some similar posts can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this collage to be misleading as the second image was not taken from Nainital. The photograph of Muslim public prayer is from Bangladesh.

AFWA Probe

With the help of a reverse image search, we examined both the images used in the collage. In the process, a higher resolution version of the image of the road with the pedestrians was spotted on a travel website named ‘Indian Holiday.’

In this image, we were able to locate signage for ‘Alka’ and ‘Dominos’ on the right side of the footpath. Taking this as a cue, we searched for Google Maps and located the pizza outlet on Nainital’s Mall Road, opposite the famous Nainital Lake. ‘Alka’ is a lakeside hotel that can also be located on Google Maps. Thus, it became clear that the first image was indeed from Nainital.

When we ran a reverse image search of the second photograph, the results took us to an article published in November 2019. The article was about the 'World’s biggest Islamic Congregation’ held in Madhya Pradesh’s capital, Bhopal. Although no detailed information about the photo was available here, the higher resolution image helped us spot the original one.

When this image was reverse searched, the results led us to an ‘Al Jazeera’ report from January 24, 2018. According to the report, the photograph was captured by Mahmud Hossain Opu during the annual Biswa Ijtema ("world congregation") event, where more than two million people from over 130 countries took part.

A comparison of the two images confirms that the image from Bangladesh has been used in the viral collage.

The report presents the said event as the second-largest Muslim gathering in the world. The photograph was taken during collective prayer on the banks of the Turag River, which is some 35 kilometres away from Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh.

Thus, it can be concluded that the collage comparing scenarios of Nainital over the decade is misleading as the second image is from Bangladesh.