When on the one hand, there is gloom in the automobile industry due to the Covid-induced drop in car sales, some on social media seem to have found a reason to cheer up.

A viral message circulating on Facebook and WhatsApp claims that Tata Motors has come up with a new electric car called EVision with record features. It can apparently run up to 1,000 km in one charging and the battery has a warranty of 10 years.

advertisement

Facebook page “Swadeshi Being Indian” and some users have posted a picture of industrialist Ratan Tata with some others standing alongside a brand new sedan, with “Tata Motors EVision” written in the background.

The caption of the viral post reads, “New car from TATA MOTORS, we should appreciate the vision of Ratan Tata. New Tata Evision Electric car on one charge it runs 1000 km it’s world record and battery is for a 10 years warranty from TATA. We are proud TATA”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. EVision was launched as a concept car in the Geneva Motor Show in 2018. This car has not yet been launched commercially.

The post by “Swadeshi Being Indian” was shared more than 34,000 times till the filing of this story. The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA investigation

With the help of keyword search, we found that Tata Motors had showcased the E-Vision all-electric concept sedan at the 88th Geneva International Motor Show (GIMS) in 2018.

Ratan Tata, along with other senior officials of Tata motors, can be seen in a YouTube video posted by the company on March 6, 2018. The title of the video is: Tata Motors celebrates its 20th year at Geneva International Motor Show 2018 with its ‘InnoVision’.

In 2018, when the same misleading claim regarding E-Vision electric car went viral for the first time, Tata Motors had refuted the claim, calling it “fake news”.

A report by “The Financial Express” on July 10, 2018, quoted Suresh Rangarajan, head of Tata Motors corporate communications. The report says, in reference to the claim, Rangarajan had said on LinkedIn, “Fake news that has been travelling far and wide no such announcements made by the company. Someone’s imagination running wild.”

Tata EVision’s design was based on OMEGA (Optimal Modular Efficient Global Advanced) architecture. A concept car is made to showcase new styling and/or new technology often displayed at motor shows to gauge customer reaction to new and radical designs which may or may not be mass-produced.

advertisement

In an interview with “The Times of India” published on January 23, 2020, Guenter Butschek, CEO & MD, Tata Motors, said the company had debuted a concept in Geneva 2018 that was based on Omega architecture. He suggested, “It’s technically feasible but not commercially viable.”

Hence, it is confirmed that Tata Motors has not come up with EVision electric car. It was launched as a concept sedan in the Geneva Motor Show in 2018. This car has not yet been launched commercially.