Actor Deepika Padukone was recently trolled on social media for her post on mental health in the backdrop of Sushant Singh Rajput's death. On August 19, the Supreme Court allowed CBI to investigate Rajput's death, and social media wants the agency to probe the "Bollywood mafia" and the late actor's friends.

On Facebook, a picture of Padukone, her husband and actor Ranveer Singh, and Rajput's friend and filmmaker Sandip Ssingh, along with two other men, is going viral. The group is seen sitting around a table full of food items. Netizens claim one of the men is fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim.

advertisement

Facebook page "Sushant Justice" posted the image along with the caption, "See my friend see... Dipika Ranveer Sandip and "Mahesh Shetty if i am not wrong" with Dawood... Thanks to our grup member for this photo..."

Sandip Ssingh has also come under criticism on social media for his "inconsistent statements" on Rajput's death. He was apparently one of the first people to have arrived at the scene of Rajput's death on June 14. Mahesh Shetty is a TV actor and close friend of Rajput.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the man encircled in the picture is not Dawood Ibrahim but production designer and art director Wasiq Khan. Also, Mahesh Shetty is not present in the viral picture.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. Many Facebook users have posted the same claim.

AFWA investigation

Using reverse search, we found the uncropped version of the viral picture on some news websites. The uncropped picture also shows film director Sanjay Leela Bhansali at the table.

Entertainment news website Pinkvilla used this picture in an article in August 2013 and wrote that it was clicked during an Iftar party on the sets of "Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram Leela" in Mumbai. Bhansali was the director of the movie.

We found that Sandip Ssingh had also uploaded this picture on his Instagram profile on May 17. He captioned it, "#Iftar is the time of huge blessings, try to gather as many as you can... Breaking bread together since 2013." Sandip was one of the producers of "Ram Leela".

Sandip in his post also tagged the persons present in the photo. It suggests that the person sitting next to him is Wasiq Khan, whom netizens suspected to be Dawood.

Wasiq Khan is an art director who worked in many Bollywood films including "Ram Leela" and "Gangs of Wasseypur".

We found some pictures of Wasiq Khan on his Facebook profile, which makes it clear that the man encircled in the viral picture is him.

Wasiq also posted the viral picture on Facebook a few months ago.

To further verify the claim, we reached out to Sandip. His media team denied the claim and said the person in question is Wasiq Khan. The person sitting next to Wasiq is cinematographer Ravi Varman.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the claim along with the viral picture is misleading. The man encircled in the picture, sitting along with Deepika and Ranveer, is Wasiq Khan and not Dawood Ibrahim.