A video of a woman in a headscarf repeating some religious verses after a man is going viral on social media with the claim that the daughter of former United States President George W Bush has converted to Islam. The woman can be seen getting emotional a number of times in the video.

The caption of the 1-minute-39-second video says, "The daughter of the biggest enemy of muslims, former president George Bush, daughter has excepted Islam religion masha Allah congregation sisters god blesse you".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. The six-year-old video is of a Romanian woman who had converted to Islam.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching one of the key frames of the viral clip, we found a longer version of the video on YouTube which was uploaded on January 18, 2014. The title of the video says, "Romanian Woman Converting to Islam Emotional - January 2014".

There are some close shots of the woman in the video, which do not match with the facial features of either Barbara Pierce Bush or Jenna Bush Hager, the twin daughters of George W Bush.

However, we were not able to identify the woman in the video.

George W Bush's daughters

Former US President George W Bush is the father of twin daughters Barbara Pierce Bush and Jenna Bush Hager. Barbara is an activist and the founder of non-profit organisation Global Health Corps. Jenna is a journalist and anchor with NBC.

In February 2017, when US President Donald Trump signed an order temporarily suspending immigration from seven Muslim nations, Jenna had publicly expressed displeasure. She had then tweeted an excerpt from one of her father's speech, saying, "This is not the America I know"

"This is not the America I know..." just a reminder this am to teach acceptance and love to our kids for all races, all religions.. pic.twitter.com/32XohAGMv7 — Jenna Bush Hager (@JennaBushHager) January 31, 2017

Just days after the 9/11 attacks, George W Bush had delivered a famous speech at the Islamic Center of Washington, DC, in which he praised the Muslim community and tried to assuage their fears. It was then that he used the phrase which Jenna tweeted.

We did not find any news reports saying that either of George W Bush's daughters converted to Islam. Had that been the case, it would have made news for days. Hence, it is clear that the woman in the viral video is not the daughter of the former US President.