The twists and turns in Maharashtra politics over the last few weeks had the entire nation glued to their TV sets. And finally, the Shiv Sena ditched its 30-year-old ally BJP to join hands with arch rivals NCP and Congress to install its own chief minister.

Amid various developments in the western state, social media too is filled with misleading claims. A recent one suggests that the Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' changed its masthead from saffron to green and its tagline has now become "secular". The viral post claims this change took place on November 28, the day Uddhav Thackeray took oath as chief minister.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the collage to be manipulated. Neither has the 'Saamana' masthead changed, nor did its tagline.

The Claim

Facebook user 'Rajendraprakash Saxena' uploaded a collage of two 'Saamana' editions - apparently of November 22 and 28. The masthead in the November 22 edition is in saffron, with the tagline, "Jwalant Hindutwacha puraskar karnare ekmev Marathi dainik". In English, it means, "The only Marathi daily to speak of burning Hindutva issues."

The masthead of the November 28 edition, on the other hand, is in green, with the tagline, "Sarvdharm sambhavacha puraskar karnare ekmev Marathi dainik." In English, it means, "The only Marathi daily to speak of issues concerning all religions." Incidentally, the date here is handwritten, and a closer look at the dateline reveals it is actually a November 18 edition.

The caption of Saxena's post says, "Saamna has become secular after congress & NCP support.. saffron to green colour." The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Many Facebook users have shared a similar collage, and the claim is going viral on WhatsApp too.

AFWA probe

We searched the Internet for the e-paper of Saamana and found that its masthead is still in saffron with its usual tagline - "The only Marathi daily to speak of burning Hindutva issues."

We searched for the 'Saamana' editions of November 28 and November 18 in its archives and found that neither the masthead, nor the tagline was any different.

Saamana was founded by late Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray in 1988 to air his views. AFWA reached out to Sanjay Raut, executive editor of the daily and Sena Rajya Sabha MP, who said, "There are some people whose stomachs ache at seeing how the government was formed, and so, they keep making such photoshopped images viral."

Therefore, we can say that Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana's masthead and tagline remain the same even after it formed a coalition government in Maharashtra along with arch rivals NCP and Congress. The viral image is photoshopped.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: How a US warship pushed Navy Day into a whirlpool of controversies