Millions across the globe are mourning the death of legendary singer SP Balasubrahmanyam who took his last breath at a Chennai hospital on September 25, following a cardio-respiratory arrest.

Soon after his death, a message started circulating on social media that SPB’s family was unable to afford the hospital bill and had to seek the Centre’s help. As per the claim, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu’s daughter finally settled the bill to get the late singer’s mortal remains released by the hospital.

advertisement

One such claim on Twitter says, “3Crore plus for 51 days . . Rs 1.85 crore balance had to be paid by SPB’s family in the morning to take the mortal remains. An Appeal to Delhi and the relief.. Vice president Venkaiah Naidu’s daughter went and cleared up the hospital bill after which the body was released”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. SPB’s son SP Charan himself refuted the claims and confirmed that the family did not face any financial hurdle in settling the hospital bills.

Other claims added that the Tamil Nadu government refused help. The archived versions of some of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

SPB was admitted in Chennai’s MGM Healthcare on August 5 after testing positive for coronavirus. A recipient of Padma Shri and Padma Bhushan, he had sung over 40,000 songs in 16 languages and won six National Awards.

Though he later tested negative for coronavirus, he remained on ventilator , and died of cardiac arrest on September 25.

On September 28, his son SP Charan told the media that the viral claim of the Centre helping in settling hospital bills is false. SP Charan, a producer and singer, appealed to people to stop spreading rumours and allow the family time to come to terms with the loss.

“We were paying the hospital bills regularly. My father also had medical insurance. After his demise, I came with our accountant to settle the remaining bills. However, the hospital refused to accept the money. The due amount was waived off by the hospital and I don’t know how much that amount was,” SP Charan said.

“Money was not a factor for us. We just wanted father to recover. MGM took good care of my father and I am thankful to them. I was also told by the hospital that they were regularly contacted by the Tamil Nadu government asking if the state could help with anything. So the claim that the Tamil Nadu government denied help to us is also false,” he added.

advertisement

Following rumours regarding the hospital bill, SP Charan had earlier posted a Facebook Live, refuting the claim and calling it hogwash and hurtful.

Several media houses have reported on the Facebook post.

AFWA also reached out to MGM’s official spokesperson Vasanth Kumar regarding the controversy.

“Though it is a tragic loss, we are honoured to have taken care of SPB on his final days. We had a multi-disciplinary team of doctors to treat him. Dr. Deepak Subramaniam, who was also a member of this team, is a close friend of Charan,” Vasanth Kumar said.

“The claims surrounding the bills are false. Patient confidentiality is very important, so we cannot reveal how much the bill was. Also, the Tamil Nadu government was regularly in touch with us, enquiring about SPB’s health,” he added.

Hence, it is clear that the claim of SPB’s family struggling to settle hospital bills and appealing to the Centre for help is false.