A video went viral on social media. Questions are being raised through this video that Maulana is giving training to students to use weapons in the madrasa. People are also raising questions on the education of madrasas what kind of education is being given here?

Caption on YouTube channel HR India, “जिहादी मदरसों में छात्रों को दे रहा था, ढाय ढाय वाला ज्ञान! पुलिस घसीट कर लाए थाने!” (Jihadi was giving armed training to students in madrasa! Police arrested them.) A video of about three minutes with the same has been uploaded on 23 July 2022.

In this video, a screenshot of Swatva News website is being shown saying that a video is going viral from the madrassa of Pratapgarh, as soon as this video went viral on social media, when the police came to know, the police immediately went there and arrested the Maulana. You can see what kind of education is being conducted inside the madrasa. Similar studies take place in a madrasa.

https://youtu.be/RIICcUC5a5Y

On the other hand, on website of Swatva Samachar, news has been written under the headline, “बच्चों को Firing सिखा रहा था मौलाना, बकरीद के दिन का वीडियो Viral, दबोचा गया” (Maulana was teaching children to fire, the video of Bakrid day is viral, nabbed). There is written in ntro, “Like Patna Terror Module in Bihar in neighbouring state UP also. Terrorist’s training exposed. In Pratapgarh, a Maulana is teaching Muslim children to fire rifles on the day of Bakrid. After the video went viral, the police swung into action and arrested Maulana Intezaar as soon as the matter was found to be true.

Further in this, news it has been claimed that- “Maulana has been infamous for objectionable antics in the past as well. People have been coming and going to him in the past to learn how to fire a rifle. Security agencies are questioning him.”

Fact Check:

To investigate this news, first we did a simple search on Google with the help of keywords. We got many reports published on this.

Dainik Jagran titled it, “प्रतापगढ़ में बुजुर्ग लोड कर रहे रायफल और नाबालिग कर रहे तड़ातड़ फायर, वीडियो वायरल; प्रतापगढ़ पुलिस लेगी कानूनी एक्शन” (Elderl are loading rifle and minors doing quick fire in Pratapgarh, the video went viral; Pratapgarh Police will take legal action) There is no mention of a madrasa or a Maulana in this entire story.

According to Dainik Jagran, a person named Intezaar had come to the wedding ceremony in Pratapgarh’s village Kandhai in the dress of Sheikh, who gave training to the people to use rifles. Its video has gone viral on the internet.

Similarly Navbharat has also covered it. According to Navbharat, the video is going viral for two-three days, now the police have arrested two people named Intezar and Gulzar.

At the same time, the police has also not mentioned any madrasa or Maulana in its statement. The police statement can be heard here.

Conclusion:

It is clear from this fact check of DFRAC that the video going viral is not of a madrasa or a Maulana training children to use rifles, but a wedding ceremony. The arrested people are not Maulana, hence the video is being viral with misleading claim by YouTube channel HR India, website Swatva News and other social media users.

Claim: Maulana gave firing training to students in madrasa

Claimant: HR India, Swatva News and other social media users

Fact Check: Misleading