International pop artist Rihanna and environmental activist Greta Thunberg have extended their support to the ongoing farmers’ protest in India. Multiple Indian celebrities from movies and sports too supported the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws.

Amid this, a screenshot of a communally charged tweet purportedly by Indian playback singer Caralisa Monteiro is viral on social media.

According to the screenshot, Monteiro tweeted, “Every time a Hindu is killed, I get orgasmic pleasure. Modi might dream Congress Mukt Bharat, but we will get Hindu Mukt India soon. Amen!”

advertisement

Several netizens lashed out at the singer sharing the alleged “Hindu Mukt India” tweet along with the screengrab of a video from 2016 where she supported the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) during Goa’s Assembly elections.

The caption in Hindi to one such post translates as “This is Kejriwal's AAP Bollywood Brand Ambassador Caralisa Monteiro. She gets orgasmic pleasure in killing Hindus. The truth is that the Hindus of Delhi have decorated their pyre by voting for a wicked Maoist like Kejriwal for free.”

Several netizens also tweeted the same screengrab demanding action against the Bollywood singer for her alleged tweet that invokes communal hatred.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral tweet in the name of Monteiro is fake. The singer also clarified through her verified Twitter handle that the tweet was not made by her and case has been registered on this matter.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

AFWA probe

During our investigation, we couldn’t find the tweet in question on the timeline of Monteiro's verified Twitter handle. Neither could we find an archived version of the tweet on any of the archiving sites.

The date of posting mentioned on the viral screengrab is January 1, 2021. However, we found that only one tweet from the singer dated January 1, is currently available on her handle. This tweet was regarding a Logical Indian report on a gang rape survivor and it was made around 8:50 pm.

Also, the name of the device used for posting a tweet from any given user’s account is seen in the space after the time and date of every tweet. However, the space for the name of the device is vacant in the viral tweet.

The number of retweets, quote tweets and likes that are usually seen below the space for date and time are also missing in the viral screenshot. It is highly unlikely for a controversial tweet made by the verified handle of Monteiro, who has over 36.4K followers, to not get any likes or retweets.

Here is a comparison between a text-only tweet posted by Monteiro on her verified Twitter handle on February 4, 2021, and the viral screengrab in question.

Moreover, the singer herself clarified when the tweet in question went viral. “This is a fake tweet and will be reported. Not language I use. And not how I speak. Will formally lodge a complaint regarding this,” Monteiro tweeted in response to one such viral post. Moreover, the singer herself clarified when the tweet in question went viral. “This is a fake tweet and will be reported. Not language I use. And not how I speak. Will formally lodge a complaint regarding this,” Monteiro tweeted in response to one such viral post.

Later, she also said a case has been registered on the matter.

Hence it is clear that the viral tweet on a “Hindu Mukt India” is fake and not tweeted by singer Caralisa Monteiro.

READ | Fact Check: List of UP Congress' minority cell members viral with communal twist

READ | Fact Check: This article praising PM Modi was not published by ‘The New York Times’

READ | Fact Check: This ‘Islamophobic’ news headline about Kerala cricketer Azharuddeen is fake

WATCH | Edited clip of Mamata reciting Islamic prayers linked to Netaji event controversy