A screengrab of Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son AadityaThackeray’s Twitter account is being circulated on social media with the claim that he removed the word “minister” from his Twitter bio amid the developing political turmoil in Maharashtra.

One such screenshot tweeted by the official Twitter account of the Organiser Weekly can be seen below. The tweet says, “Aditya Thackeray changes his Twitter bio & removes the ‘Minister’ reference as the #EknathShinde camp grows bigger.”

advertisement

The screenshot shared tries to hint that the crisis in the Maha Vikas Agadhi government is only intensifying and will likely lead to the dissolution of the Vidhan Sabha.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, and here.

Multiple media outlets, including the Financial Express, Zee News Hindi, The Economic Times, and Oneindia News also published reports claiming Aaditya Thackeray, who is the Cabinet Minister of Tourism and Environment for the Government of Maharashtra, dropped the word “minister” from his Twitter bio.

AFWA found that the viral claim is false. Thackeray never had “minister” mentioned in his Twitter bio.

AFWA probe

Aaditya Thackeray’s Twitter bio currently reads, “Voicing the Youth, Poems and Photography: Passion. President, Yuva Sena. President- Mumbai District Football Association Instagram: adityathackeray.”

Thackeray was sworn in as a minister in the Maharashtra cabinet on December 30, 2019.

As per Spoonbill, an online tool that tracks Twitter users’ profile changes, Thackeray had last changed his Twitter bio on July 14, 2017. At the time, he changed it from “Chairman” of the Mumbai District Football Association to “President”.

According to Spoonbill, Thackeray has changed his Twitter bio only four times since he created his account. None of these changes were made after he became cabinet minister.

To confirm the facts, we also checked the archived versions of Thackeray’s Twitter account on the Wayback Machine’s archives. None of the archived versions of Thackeray’s Twitter page available on Wayback Machine had “minister” mentioned in the bio.

However, the bio on Thackeray’s Instagram mentions he is a minister. It reads, “Minister for Tourism, Environment & Protocol, Govt of Maharashtra, President: Yuva Sena, Vice President: WIFA, President of the Mumbai District FA.”

Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi has also "fact-checked" the viral claim on Twitter.

He did not have his minister status ever on his Twitter bio. Fact check. https://t.co/ovAJsV0m0j — Priyanka Chaturvedi (@priyankac19) June 22, 2022

With the available details, it is clear that the claim that Aaditya Thackeray dropped “minister” from his Twitter bio is false.