The video shows Mamata Banerjee driving an electric scooter as a protest against the rise in fuel prices in 2021.

A video showing West Bengal’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee driving a two-wheeler and later misbalancing her scooty is widely circulating on social media. Users claim that this video shows Mamata Banerjee learning how to ride a moped by blocking an entire road. It is also claimed that the entire administration was also engaged in training the chief minister.

The caption of the post states, “To teach scooty to Mamata Banerjee, the entire road has been closed and the administration is engaged in teaching scooty.”

(Hindi: ममता बनर्जी को स्कूटी सिखाने के लिए पूरी सड़क बंद कर दी है और प्रशासन स्कूटी सिखाने में लगा है।)

Facebook Post | Archive Link

The video is being widely circulating on Facebook.

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google whose results led us to a tweet published by ANI posted on 25 February 2021. The caption of the video mentions, “West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee nearly falls while driving an electric scooter in Howrah, as a mark of protest against fuel price hike. She quickly regained her balance with support and continued to drive. She is travelling to Kalighat from State Secretariat in Nabanna.”

According to the information of the video, it dates back to the time when Mamata Banerjee was protesting against the rise in fuel prices.

#WATCH | West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee nearly falls while driving an electric scooter in Howrah, as a mark of protest against fuel price hike. She quickly regained her balance with support and continued to drive.



She is travelling to Kalighat from State Secretariat in Nabanna pic.twitter.com/CnAsQYNhTP — ANI (@ANI) February 25, 2021

ABP News had posted another version of the viral video on 25 February 2021. They reported that Mamata Banerjee rode an electric scooter to the Secretariat as a protest against the hike in fuel prices. This was not the first time when she has adopted a unique way to register her protest. You can see India Today’s news report here.

According to Economic Times, Mamata Banerjee had nearly fallen while driving an electric scooter in Howrah, as a mark of protest against fuel price hike. She quickly regained her balance with support and continued to drive. She was travelling to Kalighat from State Secretariat in Nabanna.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found that the claim made along with the video to be Misleading and False. The viral video does not show Mamata Banerjee learning driving by blocking an entire road. The video shows Mamata Banerjee driving an electric scooter as a protest against the rise in fuel prices in 2021.