Spread the truth:

A video is viral which shows Police along with some leadernt/karyakartas have raided a Government Primary School where Muslims are having a gathering in a class. The video is viral claiming Delhi Government is changing Government Schools to Madarsas spreading Islam. Many claiming that Delhi Schools have been taken over Rohingyas

Twitter

A verified handle with the name Rakesh, a Newspaper Editor tweeted –

“जी हां शक मत करो भारत है तालिबान नही इराक ईरान सीरिया पाकिस्तान नही है भारत की राजधानी का हाल है और ले लो फ्री बिजली पानी जगह नही मिलेगी दिल्ली के सरकारी स्कूल पर रोहिंग्याओं का कब्ज़ा। स्कूल को बना दिया मदरसा।”

जी हां

शक मत करो

भारत है😡👉

तालिबान नही

इराक

ईरान सीरिया

पाकिस्तान नही है

भारत की राजधानी का हाल है😡👉

और ले लो फ्री बिजली पानी

जगह नही मिलेगी

दिल्ली के सरकारी स्कूल पर रोहिंग्याओं का कब्ज़ा।

स्कूल को बना दिया मदरसा। 😡👉

pic.twitter.com/0lxxqr09z6 — राकेश भारत (@rakesh_bstpyp) November 27, 2021

The tweet below by Shweta Bhattacharya, Journalist/Assistant Editor of The New Indian, has been deleted but has been archived here

The Following Tweet has be Retweeted for more than 2400 times and has been seen by approx 35000 people

Ashish Jaggi –

Govt schools are converting into Madarsas in Delhi Seems grooming Rohingyas is AAP’s last ray of hope for vote banks ? pic.twitter.com/3wW0mp7GIt — Ashish Jaggi (@AshishJaggi_1) November 27, 2021

Facebook

YouTube

Truth

The video is from Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, Not Delhi

The video has been viral since 26th Novmber, with all claiming it to be from Delhi. We have tried all typical fact checking tools but couldn’t find the truth. The viral videos are too low is resolution where the text/location in the background couldn’t be found. Our usual method is to listen carefully if someone mentions the place, or in background if the name/place is written. In this case, Police uniform which has the initials of state and state’s badge. But since this was too low on quality we couldn’t find that too.

But we heard the leader saying out loud “Facebook pe live karo” (Make this live om Facebook). This hint led us to search more on Facebook using different keywords which finally got us the proof.

We found the earliest possible upload on Facebook (23rd Nov 21) of the video in highest resolution by Dildarpuri Goswami who claims to be working for Akhada TV. He claimed this as from Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad.

Complete high resolution Video –

Further on looking close in the video, we found the following proofs –

In the Background you can see –

“प्राथमिक विद्यालय मिर्ज़ापुर

नगर क्षेत्र – ग़ाज़ियाबाद”

Translation – “Primary School, Mirzapur, City Area – Ghaziabad”

Secondly, the Police is also from Uttar Pradesh, not Delhi.

The left image is a screenshot from the video while the smaller one in the middle and the right one is taken from Google.

Uttar Pradesh Police – Three characters. The Blue and Red badge also matches with UP Police with a circle divided in 3 parts

So the video is from Uttar Pradesh, not Delhi as is viral.

Related