In the backdrop of ongoing protests surrounding Nupur Sharma's controversial remarks on Prophet Muhammad and police action by the Uttar Pradesh government against the protesters, a video of a man being thrashed by police has gone viral with the claim that “Hindutva radicalised cops” brutally assaulted an elderly Muslim man.

Many on Twitter shared the video where a masked policeman could be seen chasing and thrashing a bearded man with a baton. As the video continued, more officers could also be seen beating up others. The video was shared with hashtags like #AfreenFatima, #MuslimsUnderAttackinIndia, and #MuslimLivesMatter.

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room found that the viral video is two years old and not related to the recent Nupur Sharma controversy. It shows cops punishing people for not following lockdown protocols in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh.

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA Probe

A reverse image search on Yandex led us to the same video being shared as early as 2020. Several YouTube channels uploaded a longer version of the viral video in April 2020, mentioning it was from Bareilly.

Subsequent searches narrowed down to the aforementioned date and location led us to a News Nation video report. Titled, “Uttar Pradesh: Police Attacked By A Group In Bareilly While Enforcing Lockdown,” the report was from April 7, 2020.

Per the report, during the Covid-19 lockdown in April 2020, people from the Izatnagar locality in Bareilly attacked a patrolling police party and violated lockdown protocols. Later, a larger group of policemen raided the area and lathi-charged people violating lockdown norms.

This incident was reported by several mainstream media outlets in 2020 which can be seen here, here, and here.

Recently, following Nupur Sharma’s controversial remarks, nationwide protests took place and some of these protests turned violent. However, the viral video is not related to the ongoing row. It’s a two-year-old video from Bareilly.

(With input from Sanjana Saxena)