Lok Sabha MP from Tamil Nadu, Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, was recently questioned about her nationality by a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) official at the Chennai airport, as she did not know Hindi.

The incident re-ignited the "Hindi imposition" debate in the state. Following this incident, Kollywood celebrities and politicians took to social media to voice their opposition against the alleged Hindi imposition by the Centre in non-Hindi speaking states.

advertisement

People started posting photos of themselves wearing T-shirts with slogans such as, "I am a Tamizh pesum Indian" (I am a Tamil speaking Indian) and "Hindi theriyathu poda" (I don't know Hindi, Go!).

Amid this, an image of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau holding a T-shirt with "Hindi theriyathu poda (I don’t know Hindi, Go!)" written on it is viral on social media. The post claims that Trudeau has backed Tamil Nadu's fight against "Hindi imposition".

One such claim uploaded on Facebook translates into English as, "I cannot stay silent if there is a problem for Tamil or Tamilians — Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau." The claim is originally in the Tamil language.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is photoshopped. Also, the Canadian PM has not made any comment on the ongoing anti-Hindi agitation in Tamil Nadu.

The archived versions of similar claims on social media can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA Probe

During a reverse image search, we found a similar photo uploaded on multiple sites with a pro-vaccine slogan printed on the T-shirt PM Trudeau is holding, instead of an anti-Hindi slogan.

We also found a similar image uploaded by Justin Trudeau himself on his verified twitter handle @JustinTrudeau on May 30, 2019, with the caption: "Vaccines are safe, and save lives. Love this shirt, thanks @GinettePT! #VaccinesCauseAdults."

The caption on the T-shirt in this original image reads, “VACCINES CAUSE ADULTS”.

In the tweet, the PM has also marked Canadian MP Ginette Petitpas Taylor — seen standing next to him in the picture. We also found a similar image uploaded by Taylor on her Twitter handle with both Trudeau and her wearing the pro-vaccine T-shirt.

Vaccines are safe. Vaccines are effective. Vaccines save lives.



Our Prime Minister is an incredible supporter of vaccination I was so excited to present him with one of @drgigiosler's #VaccinesCauseAdults shirts! pic.twitter.com/tL0Yqp4COk — Ginette Petitpas Taylor (@GinettePT) May 30, 2019

advertisement

Pro-vaccine campaign

“Vaccine cause adults” is a T-shirt campaign which was part of a pro-vaccine movement started in the year 2019 by Legacy Pediatrics. Legacy, a pediatric office in New York, fights the anti-vaccination movement in the country.

We also found an article by USA TODAY which carried an image of the staff of Legacy Pediatrics wearing similar T-shirts that Trudeau wore in the image posted on his Twitter handle.

Moreover, no other credible sources reported the Canadian PM reacting to the "Hindi imposition" debate going on in non-Hindi speaking states in India.