Did a raging fire engulf a hotel in Mumbai? A video of an entire building up in flames has been shared widely on social media. Along with the video, it is being claimed that 'Hotel Golden' has burnt down in Ghatkopar area of Mumbai.

Facebook user Pragnya Chaudhary uploaded a video on October 21 of flames billowing from a building. She claimed that Hotel Golden in Mumbai's Ghatkopar area caught fire "just now".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is not from Mumbai but Indore. No one was injured in the fire.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Many other Facebook users have shared the same claim with the same video on October 22. In the video, a blue-coloured board of a "Vivo" store can be seen in an adjacent building, while a fire brigade vehicle reaches the spot. A yellow-and-red water tanker can already be seen.

AFWA probe

On closer scrutiny, one can see "I. Na. Pa. Ni." inscribed on the water tanker in Hindi. Had it been a water tanker from Mumbai, the inscription would have been of "B. M. C." for "Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation". An Internet search for "I. Na. Pa. Ni." in Hindi throws up the result "Indore Nagar Palika Nigam". Also, in the video, the number plates on the vehicles show MP09, which is a registration of Indore RTO.

With the help of keywords like "hotel golden fire", AFWA found news reports of Hindustan Times and The Times Of India which showed this very video and stated that the fire had taken place in Indore. In one of the reports, the video shows the blue coloured board of "Vivo" in the adjacent building.

According to these reports, a massive fire had erupted at "Golden Gate" hotel in Vijay Nagar area of Indore on October 21. Several people were rescued from the burning building and no casualties were reported.

AFWA did not find any report of a hotel named "Golden" catching fire in Ghatkopar area of Mumbai.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the viral video of the raging fire is from Indore and has nothing to do with Mumbai.