Last week, the Time magazine announced its annual 'Person of the Year' for 2020. Soon after, an image of the supposed magazine cover started circulating on social media. This cover has the pictures of Chinese Premier Xi Jinping, United States President-elect Joe Biden and US Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris.

The text on this magazine cover reads, "Xi Jinping, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris - Changing America's Story". Several Facebook users posted the picture believing it to be true.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is altered. Time magazine awarded the 'Person of the Year' title for 2020 to Biden and Harris and not Jinping.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

AFWA probe

On December 11, Time Magazine tweeted that Biden and Harris are its 2020 'Person of the Year'. It also posted the image of the magazine cover featuring their pictures. The text on the magazine cover says, "Joe Biden and Kamala Harris - Changing America's Story".

Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are TIME's 2020 Person of the Year #TIMEPOY https://t.co/o97QNlSBrl pic.twitter.com/KuoBoebBN4 — TIME (@TIME) December 11, 2020

Edward Felsenthal, the editor-in-chief of Time describes that "for changing the American story, for showing that the forces of empathy are greater than the furies of division, for sharing a vision of healing in a grieving world, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are TIME's 2020 Person of the Year".

This is the first time that the magazine included a US Vice-President.

The viral image also appears to be photoshopped because while Biden's and Harris's necks and shoulders are seen, Jinping's are missing. The original image cover for Time's 2020 'Person of the Year' is available in the magazine's "vault" section, which displays its published covers. This edition releases on December 21.

Hence, it is confirmed that the viral image showing Biden, Harris and Jinping as Time's 'Person of the Year' for 2020 is altered and misleading.