After the Indian Premier League (IPL), cricket lovers are eagerly waiting for the upcoming India-Australia series from November 27. Apart from the matches, another attraction would be Team India’s new navy blue jersey, which is inspired by India’s 1992 World Cup wear.

But the jersey, in which Indian cricketer Shikhar Dhawan tweeted a picture on November 24, has come under criticism from a section of netizens, who accuse BCCI of omitting “India” from the team outfit.

advertisement

The viral post has an old picture of Sachin Tendulkar on the left in a navy blue jersey with “INDIA” printed on it, while the image on the right shows Dhawan in the new jersey with a logo of “BYJU’S”. India’s name cannot be seen on Dhawan’s jersey in this post.

“IT’S NOT INDIA VS AUSTRALIA. IT’S BYJU’S VS AUSTRALIA. LOOKS LIKE BCCI PREFER MONEY OVER THE COUNTRY,” reads the post. BYJU’S is an education app and the official sponsor of the Indian cricket team.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral post to be misleading. First, Dhawan’s picture is cropped as the original photo shows “INDIA” printed just below “BYJU’S”. Second, the comparison is incorrect because Tendulkar’s picture is from the 1992 World Cup when team outfits only had the country’s name upfront. The post is being widely shared on social media. The archived version of the viral post can be seen here. AFWA investigation In the original picture tweeted by Dhawan, the part below BYJU’S is not completely visible, but one can easily make out that “INDIA” is written below the logo. The viral post has used a cropped picture of Dhawan, who is part of the Indian squad for the bilateral series Down Under. The official Twitter handle of ICC also posted a video of KL Rahul in the new jersey where “INDIA” is clearly seen below the “BYJU’S” logo. KL Rahul will be looking to offer as much advice as possible from behind the stumps to India's spinners, though he isn't expecting to fill the hole left by MS Dhoni's retirement #AUSvIND pic.twitter.com/rqB5bq6UUs— ICC (@ICC) November 25, 2020 Wrong comparison Using reverse search, AFWA found that Tendulkar’s picture was taken during the 1992 World Cup. Many users commented below the post that this jersey did not have the sponsor’s name as it was a World Cup event. To clarify this, we reached out to former Indian cricketer Kiran More, who has also served as chairman of the BCCI selection committee. He is also seen in the viral picture, standing next to Tendulkar. advertisement More clarified that in World Cup events, the jerseys only have the country’s name in front. He added that in 1992, there were hardly any sponsors for the teams, and hence, there was no chance to have any company’s name written on the jerseys. On the other hand, the new jersey Dhawan is seen wearing will be used for a bilateral series in which the team outfits can have the official sponsor’s name, More said. Recently, More had tweeted some pictures of the Indian team jersey used in the 1992 World Cup.