A Facebook page named ‘PM Narendra Modi Mission 2019’ shared a post on 23 May 2019. There is a video in the post and the post claims – The Modi government, which has come to power for the second time, has made ten big announcements. The details mentioned in the post are:

Ten announcements by PM Modi:

1. Electricity tariff will become 4 rupees per unit.

2. In two years, the Ram temple will start with the blast and there will be out-of-court settlement for the issue.

3. At the time of Durga Puja in Bengal, army is to be stationed there, Durga Puja will be stopped and President’s rule will be imposed.

4. In the next five years under the Prime Minister’s Housing Scheme, 25 million houses will be given to homeless families and every family will receive a subsidy of Rs. 4 lakh.

5. Under the Prime Minister Shagun Yojna, girls who are married after 30 years of age, will receive 81 thousand rupees from the government as a blessing.

6. BPL ration cardholders will be assisted up to five lakh rupees for large operation.

7. The Government shall provide Six-lakh rupees for employment to unemployed youth under the Prime Minister’s credit plan.

While listening to the video, it was repeatedly being said that, like the video, subscribe to the channel. Write Jai Hind in the comment. It also mentioned that a free TV would be given to anyone who writes Jai Shriram. The post claims ten changes where as we got only seven mentioned.

These things make the apprehension about the truth of this video. In addition, no news or TV channels publishing such news raise questions about the authenticity of the video. Let us see what the facts are!

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA:

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

We first saw that the shared post dated May 26, 2019. Whereas the new government of Narendra Modi was sworn in on May 30, 2019. Obviously, no government can take any kind of decision even before taking oath. Because it is only the Cabinet meeting to take such decisions and it will only happen when the Prime Minister and his Cabinet will take oath.

Broadcasting of the swearing-in ceremony of his new Cabinet was live on 30 May 2019 available on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Facebook page. You can see this video below:

FacebookPost | ArchivedVideo

After this, we found the news of the first cabinet meeting of Narendra Modi’s new Cabinet. This meeting took place on May 31, 2019. Prime Minister Modi itself tweeted about the decisions taken in this first meeting.

Our Government’s first decision dedicated to those who protect India!



Major changes approved in PM’s Scholarship Scheme under the National Defence Fund including enhanced scholarships for wards of police personnel martyred in terror or Maoist attacks. https://t.co/Vm90BD77hm pic.twitter.com/iXhFNlBCIc — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 31, 2019

TweetLink | ArchivedTweet

The news website ‘INDIA TODAY‘ has published the news of this cabinet meeting on May 31, 2019. This news states that the first decision in the meeting of the Cabinet taken was to make changes in the Prime Minister Scholarship Scheme under the National Defence Fund.

IndiaTodayPost | ArchivedLink

In the news given by the ‘Live Mint’ dated 31 May 2019, the details of the decisions taken in this cabinet meeting are given. The decision is as follows:

1. Under the Prime Minister’s Scheme, 14.5 million farmers are included in the scheme.

2. To make provision of pension for 30 million businesspersons after age 60.

3. Pension to farmers over the age of 60 for next three years.

4. 13 thousand crores for health of animals.

5. Changes in the Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme.

LiveMintPost | ArchivedLink

You can read the news of this meeting by ‘The Hindu’ on the link below:

TheHindu Post

The cabinet meeting has not yet taken place after this meeting. Therefore, with this amendment, it is clear that, the claims in the video are not yet decided by the Narendra Modi Government.

We also studied the last five years. There is no news of such a decision during this time.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact checked and confirms that the video shared is with a wrong narrative. We categorise the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased videos and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.