The deaths of famous people are followed by a media frenzy, with the famous and the powerful eulogising them. However, some people are claiming that hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr was denied this. According to a post now viral on social media, the iconic sportsman passed away and his death was not mourned by politicians and the media.

"The great Indian hockey player Shri Balbir Singh Sr departed with his hockey stick. He had contributed significantly to India's three Olympic gold medals. If it was an actor who had died, the media would be crying, the politicians' souls would come out and the people of India would be on the road," the post read. The post also contained a photo of a shrouded body with a hockey stick lying on top of it.

advertisement

Similar claims have been archived here, here and here.

AFWA found that Singh died two years ago, on May 25, 2020. The iconic forward was laid to rest with full state honours, despite pandemic protocols.

Who was Balbir Singh Sr?

Balbir Singh Sr won the Olympic gold thrice for India. Rated amongst the best centre forwards ever to play the game, the icon breathed his last at a Mohali hospital on May 25, 2020. He was 96.

Does the photo show Singh?

A reverse search of the image took us a few tweets from 2020. They were tweeted on May 25 — the day Singh died. On the occasion of his first death anniversary, The Times of India published a photo story that features a similar photo.

This confirmed that the image indeed showed the mortal remains of Singh.

Was his death ignored?

Having confirmed that Singh died in 2020, we turned our attention to the next part of the post that accused the media and nation of ignoring the news. A few searches on Google confirmed this was baseless. Singh was paid proper homage by the media and political leadership of the country.

Here's how the Punjabi media covered his death:

Given below are some news reports about his death in national media outlets in 2020.

Did politicians and leaders react?

Singh was cremated with full state honours at the Sector 25 electric crematorium on May 25, 2020. A police contingent fired three-volley shots as a mark of respect.

The then-Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi declared at the funeral that the Mohali stadium will be named after the legendary player.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi, then-Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju, and former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, among many others, had also condoled his death on social media.

Padma Shri Balbir Singh Sr. Ji will be remembered for his memorable sporting performances. He brought home lots of pride and laurels. Undoubtedly a brilliant hockey player, he also made a mark as a great mentor. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and well wishers. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 25, 2020

advertisement

Here is how Hockey India reacted to the death of the former captain on Twitter:

A former Indian Captain, Padma Shri Awardee, Guinness World Record Holder for most goals scored by an individual in the men's hockey final of the Olympics nothing but A LEGEND.



He will always be remembered. #IndiaKaGame #RIPBalbirSinghSr



(2/2) — Hockey India (@TheHockeyIndia) May 25, 2020

Thus, it is clear that the legendary hockey star received the farewell that his stature deserved following his death in 2020.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena in New Delhi)