Former BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma’s controversial comment on Prophet Muhammad during a TV debate led to a communal rift in the nation.

In the backdrop of this, a video is going viral on social media in which a mob can be seen rallying. Users are claiming that the video is from Jammu and people came in support of Nupur Sharma.

However, fact Crescendo found the claim to be false. The video is from Noida when VHP conducted a Shobha Yatra on Hanuman Janmotsav.

What’s The Claim?

The caption of the post states, “Hindus of Jammu came out in support of Nupur Sharma. Now the world will see the unity and strength of Hindus.”

Facebook | Archive

Further, we found the same video viral with another claim that Thakur Samaj people are rallying to give respect to Rajput King Prithvi Raj Chauhan.

FACT CHECK

Google Reverse Image Search on keyframes of this video led us to the same viral video uploaded on Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s YouTube channel on 18 April 2022. 2.

In the description, it is mentioned that this is a video of Shobha Yatra on the occasion of Hanuman Janmotsav conducted by joint venture of VHP and Bajrang Dal in Noida. Approximately 15000 people participated in this.

The same video was also posted by VHP on its Facebook page.

We also found many similarities between viral videos and videos posted by VHP. In both, the videos same tall building can be seen on the right side. There is the same truck on the road carrying people can also be seen. Below you can see the comparison between both the videos.

Nupur Sharma made a derogative statement about Prophet Muhammad last month but the viral video is available on the internet much before that.

Therefore, it is not possible that the video has any connection with Nupur Sharma’s recent controversy.

Further, we contacted the VHP office in New Delhi. A party member told us that the viral video is from Noida this year April. This is a video of Shobha Yatra on the occasion of Hanuman Janmotsav. VHP has not organized any rally in support of Nupur Sharma.

CONCLUSION

Fact Crescendo found the claim in the post to be false. The viral video is from Noida and the rally was organized by VHP on the occasion of Hanuman Jayanti. This video has no connection with Jammu or Nupur Sharma.