Did Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan publicly refuse to shake hands with his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron recently? Amid a bitter feud between Turkey and France over the latter's fight against radical Islam, a picture of the two heads of state is being circulated on social media with exactly this claim.

On Thursday, terming Erdogan's response as "declarations of violence", France raised the possibility of sanctions against Ankara. Amid this, several Facebook users shared a picture that shows Macron reaching out to shake hands, while Erdogan looks the opposite way.

advertisement

The caption along with the picture says, "Turkey president Rajab Tayub Erdogan refused to hand shake with France president Macron."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is two years old. Macron met Erdogan during the annual United Nations General Assembly session at the UN headquarters in New York on September 25, 2018, where they greeted each other and shook hands.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here, here and here.

Truth about the handshake

Using reverse image search, we found the picture was originally posted on the website of "Getty Images"

in September 2018.

The picture was originally clicked by news agency AFP.

According to the caption, both leaders met at the UN headquarters in New York on September 25, 2018, during the annual UNGA session.

We found "Getty Images" had uploaded another picture of the duo shaking hands from the same event.

Both pictures have the same caption, and the photo credit to the same photographer - Ludovic Marin of AFP. The caption says, "French President Emmanuel Macron (L) meets with his couterpart Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the UN headquarters during the annual United Nations General Assembly in New York City on September 25, 2018."

(Courtesy: Getty Images)

Relations between France and Turkey have deteriorated after Macron's remarks on Islamic fundamentalism following the beheading of a teacher in Paris. The claim about Erdogan refusing to shake hands with Macron is baseless as the two have not met recently. The viral image is two years old and has been used out of context.