The introduction of the amended Motor Vehicles Act with steep penalties since September 1, 2019, has given rise to sharp reactions on social media. On the other hand, multiple videos have surfaced targeting cops who enforce the challans.

One such video where two policemen are seen hitting each other with wooden batons has gone viral. Netizens claim the cops are fighting over distribution money collected from slapping penalties.

advertisement

Facebook user "Bhomsa Goyal" shared the video with a caption in Hindi which says, "Challan kaatne ke baad hisaab ka sahi bantwara na hone par rujhaan aaya (after slapping of penalties, the collected amount was not divided properly, hence this result)."

The viral video has been shared more than 65,000 times till the filing of this story. The archived version can be seen here.

The truth

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The incident took place in 2013 in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh.

Two constables of UP police fought each other on issues related to their duties and responsibilities. This incident has no relation to challan.

AFWA investigation

The 41-second-long video shows two policemen raining sticks on one another in broad daylight on an open street. Both are later seen bleeding from their heads.

With the help of InVID reverse image search, we found a few clips on YouTube on the same video. 'India TV' had published this news on YouTube on May 22, 2013, with the caption "Two PAC policemen in Lucknow beating each other with lathis".

According to this news channel, "Two PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) constables in Lucknow - Mukul Yadav and Sunil Dikshit - today had a quarrel at Indira Gandhi Pratisthan here soon after the UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav left the venue."

We found another article related to the incident published in 'Hindustan Times' newspaper on the same day.

As per this report, head constable Mukund Chandra Yadav and constable Sunil Dixit of 10th battalion of PAC, Barabanki, were posted for chief minister's duty at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in Lucknow. The fight broke out after Yadav objected to Dixit being absent from his duty point during the CM's visit.

This led to an ugly fight between the two. Later, both the injured constables were admitted to hospital and suspended from duty.

Another "challan" video goes viral

Similarly, another video of policemen fighting among themselves has gone viral with the claim that it was over distribution of money collected from challans.

advertisement

Facebook page "Journalist Punya Prasun Bajpai" posted the video with a claim in Hindi, "Challan ke paise ka bantwara ke liye jab police apas mein hi lad mari (when police started fighting among themselves over distribution of challan money)."

This post has been shared more than 1,11,000 times till the filing of this story. This is a fan page of journalist Punya Prasun Bajpai.

We found through a reverse image search that this video is three years old and the incident was covered by several mainstream media.

These cops were fighting over distribution of bribe money in Lucknow. As per news reports, they used to collect money from street vendors and trucks.

Conclusion

"Challan" is an official government document, which normally traffic police slap on people violating traffic rules.

Both the incidents mentioned above are not related to "challan" or penalties slapped for violating traffic rules. These are old incidents and the videos are shared on social media with misleading narratives.