Facebook India's public policy head Ankhi Das has been under fire after a report by "The Wall Street Journal" indicated that the social media giant went slow on censoring hate speeches by BJP leaders.

Amid this, two pictures showing a lady cutting a Tricolour cake have gone viral on social media with the claim that Ankhi Das has disrespected the country by such an act.

advertisement

Several Facebook users have posted these pictures along with a caption in Hindi which translates to, "Indians will not tolerate such disrespect. Facebook's Ankhi Das cut a Tricolour cake. Had any Muslim done the same, media and politicians would have cried their hearts out."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim in the viral post to be false. The woman seen in the picture is India's ambassador to Belarus, Sangeeta Bahadur, who cut the Tricolour cake during this year's Independence Day celebrations in Minsk, the capital of Belarus.

The misleading post is being widely circulated on Facebook and Twitter. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Using Google reverse image search, we found that some Twitter users had posted these pictures a few days back criticising the Indian envoy.

We checked the Twitter handle of India's embassy in Belarus and found that it had uploaded some pictures of celebrations of our 74th Independence Day.

Here are some glimpses of celebration of 74th Independence Day of India. We would like to thank everyone who joined the celebrations at the Embassy.#AatmaNirbharBharat#OneYearOfDevelopment pic.twitter.com/LDSeBJ2VNk — India in Belarus (@amb_in) August 17, 2020

The website of the Indian embassy in Belarus also posted some pictures of the celebrations on August 15. Some of these images show the same woman and the Tricolour cake in the same location as seen in the viral pictures.

AFWA then found Bahadur's Facebook profile, wherein she had herself posted pictures and a video of I-Day celebrations. The viral photos can also be found here.

Therefore, it is verified that the woman cutting the Tricolour cake is India's envoy to Belarus, Sangeeta Bahadur, not Ankhi Das.

Is cutting a Tricolour cake against rules?

Deepak Masi, duty counsel (lawyer) in the International Criminal Court, told AFWA that cutting a Tricolour cake with Ashok Chakra on it can be considered a punishable offence if the intention was to disrespect the national flag. It would be a non-cognisable offence under section 2 of Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971. This can punish the convict with up to three years in jail, or fine, or both.

advertisement

There are several instances of celebrities and political workers facing the brunt of public criticism after they cut a Tricolour cake.

In 2007, Sachin Tendulkar was asked by an Indore court to reply on a charge of insulting the national flag. He was captured cutting a Tricolour cake during the team's stay in Jamaica. The cricketing legend later said his intension was certainly not to insult the national flag.

Who is Ankhi Das?

Ankhi Das is Facebook's public policy director for India, South and Central Asia. A few days back, "The Wall Street Journal" published a report which alleged that Facebook in India compromised in applying its hate speech policies against BJP leaders.

The report also claimed that Ankhi Das told employees that taking action against BJP politicians indulging in hate propaganda would hurt the company's "business prospects" in India.