A photo of industrialist Ratan Tata, chairman emeritus of Tata Sons, has gone viral. In the photo, he is seen standing next to a man in uniform, onboard an aircraft.

Several Facebook and Twitter users shared this photo with the claim, “This is the pilot flying the first Tata Air India flight. His name is Jehan Dastur. 29th January 2022.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. This is an old photo, taken in 2017.

Archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA PROBE

Who’s the man standing with Ratan Tata?

While investigating the photograph three questions arose. First, who is the person in this photo standing with Ratan Tata? Second, when was this photo taken? And third, was Ratan Tata present onboard the first AI flight that took off after Tata Group took over Air India?

We first reverse-searched this image. But it did not yield any useful results. Following that, we visited the website of Federation of Indian Pilots a registered body of Indian pilots.

We searched the Members’ List on the website, first with the keyword “Dastur”, and then with “Dastoor”. While conducting the search with the keyword “Dastoor” we found listed Capt. Jehan Dastoor. The website states that this captain works with NACIL - A or Air India.

The photo of Captain Jehan Dastoor in this website appears similar to the man in the viral photo. It can be reasonably inferred that Captain Dastoor was indeed the person standing with Ratan Tata in the viral photograph.

When was this photo taken?

Now, the website states that Dastoor is a captain of Air India. But the uniform he is seen wearing in the viral photo is that of a co-pilot not of a pilot. As per aviation rules, a first officer wears epaulets on his shoulders that have three stripes; a captain, on the other hand, wears epaulets with four stripes.

This indicates that the photo in question is an old one, likely from a time when Dastoor was a first officer or co-pilot. To set the record straight, we got in touch with the pilot himself and he confirmed that it is indeed an old photo.

“I think, after the Tata takeover, the first AI flight had taken off from Mumbai for Newark on January 28. Although I was a part of the crew member in that flight, this viral photo is an old one. It was taken in 2017 when Mr. Tata was travelling onboard one of our flights. At that time, I was still a first officer or co-pilot,” Dastoor told India Today.

advertisement

Despite several requests, however, Dastoor did not share the original photo with us. “With all due respect, I have locked my Facebook account after this photo has gone viral with misleading claims. It is for my personal collection. But the fact remains that it is an old photo and has nothing to do with the January 28 flight,” Dastoor stated.

Was Ratan Tata travelling on the first flight?

On January 27, Air India was officially handed back to Tata Group. As per news reports, the Tata Group plans to enhance onboard services in a phased manner starting with Mumbai-Newark and Mumbai-Delhi flights, where special meals were reportedly served on Friday, January 28.

Going by this statement, the Mumbai-Newark flight appears to be the first Air India flight after the Tata Group took over the airline, which took off in the wee hours of January 28. However, Ratan Tata was not present in that flight. Nor, he was at the Mumbai airport during take-off.

A captain on board this flight confirmed to India Today, “The flight took off at 1.14 am on January 28 and there were three pilots Darryl Paris, Gagan Dutt and Jehan Dastoor on board, along with co-pilot Sonam Yadav. Rata Tata was not present at the airport or onboard.”

advertisement

To further confirm the claim, we got in touch with Sameek Bhattacharya, an Air India spokesperson.

“We have not officially demarcated any flight as the first flight that took off after Tata Group took over Air India. Second, Ratan Tata was not onboard any Air India flight in the recent past. So, in all probability, the claim of this viral photo might be fake,” Bhattacharya told India Today.

Hence, we can conclude that the claim with this viral photo is misleading. This is an old photo of an Air India pilot with Ratan Tata that was taken in 2017.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena)