A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a recent picture of the money thrown away by a patient suffering from incurable Cancer disease. The post claims that this incident had recently taken place at a hospital in China. The description of the post states, “This picture was taken at the Harbin Hospital in China, where a cancer patient had come with a bag full of money and requested the doctor to save his life by showing his money. But the doctor denied the treatment as his Cancer was in the final stage. The patient was so frustrated with the doctor’s response that he threw away all the money he brought to the hospital and started shouting, “What’s the use of having this money when it cannot save my life?”.” Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Recent photo showing the money thrown away by a Cancer patient at the Harbin Hospital in China. Fact: The photo shared in the post was taken in 2014 during an altercation between a man and his ex-girlfriend at the Harbin Hospital in China. Outraged with his ex-girlfriend accepting a BMW car from her present boyfriend, a man had thrown away millions worth of money at her in the Harbin Hospital. The man’s ex-girlfriend worked as a nurse at the Harbin Hospital. The man who threw away this money at the Harbin Hospital was not a Cancer patient. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.

On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post, a similar photo was found published by a Vietnam-based news website on 12 July 2014. The article reported it is a photo taken during an altercation between a man and his ex-girlfriend at the Harbin Hospital in China. Outraged with his ex-girlfriend accepting a BMW car from her present boyfriend, a man had reportedly thrown away millions worth of money at her in the Harbin Hospital. The ex-girlfriend who was involved in the fight was then working as a nurse at the Harbin Hospital.

Reporting the incident, a few other Chinese news websites also published articles in 2014. They can be seen here, here and here. According to these media reports, the man threw away millions of RMB currency (approximately US$161,100) at his ex-girlfriend following the fight at the Harbin hospital. A doctor from the Department of Cardiology at the Harbin Medical University had reportedly first shared these photos on the internet.

A live witness told the media that the two had been fighting outside the emergency room before the incident. Security guards interfered, and have reportedly resolved the situation at the Harbin hospital. It is nowhere reported that the man who threw away this money in the Harbin hospital was suffering from a Cancer disease.

To sum it up, an old photo related to a fight between a man and his ex-girlfriend at the Harbin hospital in China shared with a false narrative.