The Narendra Modi government on Friday announced that the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award, the highest sporting honour in the nation, would be renamed to Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award.

I have been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. I thank them for their views.



Respecting their sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award!



Jai Hind! pic.twitter.com/zbStlMNHdq — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) August 6, 2021

advertisement

Soon, many social media users, including current and former Union ministers and many BJP leaders thanked the prime minister for the move.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that many of these posts carried the image of Param Vir Chakra, India's highest military decoration, and not Khel Ratna.

Many netizens, including journalists and opposition party leaders, pointed out that the medal in the image is in fact of Param Vir Chakra and not Khel Ratna.

Taking a cue from this, we did a Google search for the original image of Param Vir Chakra and found the same image in question uploaded as Param Vir Chakra on the official website of the Minister of Defence as well as the Indian Air Force.

A close look at these images on the government websites clearly shows that the image being shared as that of Khel Ratna is actually Param Vir Chakra.

We also found the original image of the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award on the official website of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. Multiple images of this award are also available on the international stock image site, Getty Images.

Even these images make it clear that the medal in the image in question is not of Khel Ratna.

Hence, it is clear that the image in question is of Param Vir Chakra and not Khel Ratna. Since Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna was renamed recently, we need to wait and see what the new look of the medal is.