Kanpur has recently witnessed mob violence followed by police lathi-charge over BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma’s controversial remarks on Prophet Muhammad.

A total of 24 people were held and 800 were booked initially by the Uttar Pradesh police related to the incident.

Now a video of a police officer talking over the phone has gone viral with the claim that Uttar Pradesh police are blaming the BJP for the recent violence in Kanpur. The police officer can be heard talking to someone saying, “BJP leaders along with the MLA have come with bombs”.

advertisement

Multiple Facebook users have posted this video alongside a caption in Hindi that translates to, “In Kanpur, the police themselves are saying that a BJP MLA has brought a bomb. He is telling this to one of his senior officers. But still, no one has been arrested, only innocent Muslims are being arrested.”

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) has found that this video is not related to the recent violence in Kanpur. In July 2021, during Uttar Pradesh's Block Pramukh elections, the SP (City) of Etawah district was allegedly slapped. The officer was caught on camera talking over the phone and saying he has been slapped.

The viral posts are saved here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of a reverse image search, we found a Hindi news report published by NDTV India on July 10, 2021, along with a screenshot from the viral video.

Per this report, a video of the Etawah City SP had gone viral during the UP panchayat elections, where he was heard complaining to his senior over the phone that BJP leaders had slapped him and they had gathered with bombs.

Taking this as a clue, we ran keyword searches and found the longer version of the viral video on the YouTube channel, Mojo Story.

This video was uploaded on July 10, last year. The video description reads, “During the counting of Uttar Pradesh's Block Pramukh elections, SP City of Etawah district was allegedly slapped. The SP City was caught on camera talking on a phone call and saying he has been slapped and the mob came with stones and bombs. He reportedly said that BJP MLA and District President were leading the mob.”

The same video was also uploaded on another YouTube news channel and the incident was reported by mainstream news portals last year.

Two BJP workers were arrested for allegedly slapping Prashant Kumar, the city SP of Etawah police, who is seen in the viral video talking on the phone.

So it is clear that the viral video is not related to the recent Kanpur violence. It was shot during the Uttar Pradesh's Block Pramukh elections in Etawah in July 2021.