A video of Punjab’s NRI Affairs Minister Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal went viral on social media. In the video, the minister purportedly told reporters that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government would implement a new law under which NRIs would lose property rights to their lands on lease.

In the video, the minister was seen saying, “If an NRI’s land is continuously on lease with someone, then the NRI would automatically lose ownership of that land. The ownership of that land would automatically end for the NRI. We don’t want any NRIs to lose their property through this judgment.”

advertisement

The video was shared with captions like, “These NRI’s wanted ‘Inqlaab’ in Punjab. They were the ones who flew in to support Kejriwal and poured in lots of money for him. This law will apply to those NRIs who support Khalistan.” Inqlaab here referred to the AAP’s election promise.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the video in circulation was clipped. The minister was speaking about a Supreme Court ruling related to property rights and how it would adversely affect NRIs in Punjab. Dhaliwal confirmed this to India Today.

AFWA Probe

In the viral video, we noticed the logo of Pro Punjab TV at the top right corner. We searched for this interview on the official Facebook page of Pro Punjab TV and found a longer version of it from March 12.

In this longer version of the video, Dhaliwal was speaking about a Supreme Court ruling on property rights and how under this ruling the NRIs could lose the ownership of their land given on lease. He also said he discussed the matter with the Union Minister of State for External Affairs, V Muraleedharan.

Around the three minutes ten seconds mark, the minister could be heard saying, “One important issue we discussed was the Supreme Court ruling that says if for 12 continuous years an NRI’s land is on lease with someone, then the NRI would automatically lose the ownership of that land. If this is implemented, then lakhs of NRIs would automatically lose their land. So we request the Foreign Minister to take action on this matter either in Parliament or file a case in the honourable Supreme Court. We don’t want an NRI to lose their property due to this judgment.”

The same video was also uploaded on the verified YouTube channel of Pro Punjab TV.

The Pro Punjab TV video begins with a snippet of Dhaliwal’s words from the interview. We found that this snippet was the same as the viral video.

To get to the bottom of the matter, we spoke to Dhaliwal. Dismissing the viral claim, the minister confirmed that he was speaking about a 2019 Supreme Court ruling, adding that the AAP government had not made any such decision on property rights.

advertisement

Speaking to India Today, the minister said, “The AAP government is not bringing in any such law. The Supreme Court in its 2019 judgment stated that if someone provided their land on rent for 12 continuous years to the same person, then they would automatically lose ownership rights of that land."

“The ones who live in India lease their land out for 2-3 years to protect themselves from this ruling. But NRIs can’t do this as once they leave, they don’t return to the country for 15-20 years. So, I requested MoS V Muraleedharan to introduce a bill in Parliament or approach the Supreme Court,” Dhaliwal added.

The Supreme Court, in August 2019, ruled that if a rightful owner of an immovable property failed to take action to get back possession within the limitation period, then his rights would be lost and person in possession would acquire absolute title. As per the Limitation Act 1963, the statutory period of limitation is 12 years in the case of private property.

advertisement

It was thus clear that the AAP minister did not talk about the Punjab government’s plans of taking away the property rights of NRIs. The minister was talking about a 2019 Supreme Court ruling.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal in New Delhi)