Bangladesh witnessed one of the worst communal violence in recent history, with hundreds of Hindu temples and properties vandalised across the country in targeted attacks. Police action on rioters has also claimed a few lives.

Amid this, a picture of a bleeding man is circulating on social media with the claim that he’s a Muslim man who was killed recently in Comilla, the epicentre of the riots.

advertisement

Many Facebook users posted the picture with a caption in Bengali that translates to, “Brother Hafiz Raibul Islam from Comilla has left us. Inshallah, we’ll meet on the Day of Judgment. We will avenge your blood. If we fail to do so, we will convey it to our next generation.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture is at least eight years old and not related to the recent communal violence in Bangladesh. In May 2013, fatal clashes broke out when security forces tried to remove protesting activists of the hardline Hefazat-e-Islam from Dhaka’s Shapla Chattar.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

What AFWA found

Using reverse image search, we found that the viral picture has been circulating on the Internet since 2013.

Many news portals and blogs based out of Bangladesh had published this image along with other similar pictures to report on clashes between Hefazat-e-Islam activists and security forces on the intervening night of May 5 and 6, 2013, at Shapla Chattar of Motijheel area in Dhaka.

This incident has been reported in graphic detail by several organisations, who’ve also published the viral image and many other disturbing images linked to it.

However, neither could we find any specific detail about the bleeding man nor could we independently verify the authenticity of the image in connection to the incident.

On May 5, 2013, activists of Hefazat-e-Islam, a hardline Islamic organisation, had gathered in large numbers in a show of strength and with various demands in Dhaka’s Motijheel area. The protesters had refused to budge till their demands were met.

Rapid Action Battalion (RAB), Bangladesh police and Bangladesh Border Guards (BGB) launched a joint operation to evacuate the area in the early hours of May 6. Many people lost their lives or were wounded in the incident.

Therefore, it is confirmed that the viral image is at least eight years old and not linked to the recent communal violence that rocked Bangladesh.