After the victory of Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Wayanad, Kerala, a video of a crowd cheering him was widely shared on social media. Most of the men in the video were dressed in green t-shirts, hoisting green flags which had a crescent and a star. It is being claimed that the video is a celebration of Rahul Gandhi's victory in the constituency.

advertisement No this is not in Pakistan this is Celebrations in wayanad after @RahulGandhi winning the seat. Congress has to DIE! pic.twitter.com/9SSxIfRSnK Vikas Pandey (@MODIfiedVikas) May 25, 2019

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found out that the video has nothing to do with Rahul Gandhi’s victory in the Lok Sabha election 2019.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Among others, a verified twitter handle Vikas Pandey uploaded the video with a caption: No this is not in Pakistan, this celebration took place in Wayanad after @RahulGandhi winning the seat. Congress has to DIE!

His list of followers include Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP chief Amit Shah, and Union Minister Smriti Irani, and many more prominent faces.

Facebook page of Dr. Harish Chandra Burnwal has also uploaded this video with a similar claim. At the time of filing this story, the post had already been shared by more than 3,000 people.

On a close observation, we found that the flags in the video are not Pakistani or Islamic flags. They belong to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), a regional political party in Kerala. The difference between the three flags can be seen below:

To dig deeper, India Today reached out to MC Khamaruddin, who is the president of IUML Kasaragode district committee and chairman of the parliamentary constituency election committee.

He told India Today that the video is from Kasaragod district and was shot on April 21 of this year on the occasion of Kottikalasam.

Kottikalasam or Kalasakottu is a programme that is usually held to mark the culmination of public campaigning for elections.

Kasaragod constituency went to polls on April 23 in the first phase of 2019 Lok Sabha elections.

Khamaruddin told India Today that he was also present at the event and confirmed that people chanted slogans like Rahul Gandhi Zindabad and Unnithan Zindabad, while they also cheered for Congress candidate Rajmohan Unnithan who later won from this seat. The slogans are audible in the viral video too.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video is not from Wayanad and has nothing to do with Rahul’s victory.

It was shot on April 21 in Kasaragod, much before the counting day of the general elections.