A group photograph has gone viral on social media with the claim that this is the family of the world's most prolific mother, who has given birth to 69 babies.

Facebook page "Sarcasm World" posted the photo with the caption, "The record for most babies born to one woman is 69. Mrs. Vassilyeva from Russia gave birth to 16 pairs of twins, seven sets of triplets and four sets of quadruplets."

advertisement

The archived version of the post is saved here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The Russian woman mentioned in the post does hold the world record for having the highest number of children. But the viral image has no connection with her.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse image search, we found the viral picture in an article on polygamy published by the "Utah Historical Quarterly" in 2005. In this picture from 1904, Joseph F. Smith, president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is seen with his wives and children.

International fact-check website "Snopes" had earlier found that the same image was used by a website called "Top 10 List" as the Vassilyev family, which "holds the record for the most children a couple has parented".

Regarding the world record of giving birth to the most number of babies by one woman, Mrs Vassilyev's name arguably appears in several websites such as "Livescience.com" and "BBC.com".

As per the BBC article, "According to a local monastery's report to the government in Moscow, between 1725 and 1765 Mrs Vassilyev popped out 16 pairs of twins, seven sets of triplets and four sets of quadruplets, over 27 separate labours. The grand total: 69 children."

Snopes has also mentioned that her name can be found in "The Guinness Book of World Records, 1998". But no such credible picture of Mrs Vassilyev can be found with all her children.

Hence, it can be said that the image used in the viral post has no relation to the Russian woman who is claimed to be the most prolific mother with 69 offsprings.