Netizens have gone gaga over the power of 'om' as a viral post on Facebook claims that a natural fountain shoots up in the sky when someone pronounces the mystical word.

A video along with this claim shows a fountain rising up in mountains when a girl says something sounding similar to om in a mic.

Social media users claim that the video is from Thailand where a river turns into a high-rise fountain with the sound of om. The video was circulated widely on Facebook and YouTube and shared in thousands.

advertisement

India Today Fact Check found that the claim with the video is false. First, the video is not from Thailand but North China. Second, this is not a natural fountain but a voice-controlled sound fountain. Water rises up high in these artificial fountains not particularly by the om sound but by making any loud sound.

Overwhelmed by this "supernatural phenomenon", netizens further claimed that this fountain was made by some Buddhist saint and can only be raised by chanting om.

When we searched the video with the help of intel techniques, we found a website called jatimtimes.com which said that this sound fountain is located in Buddha caves in China and made by the Himalaya Music Company.

On searching the related keywords on YouTube, we found a channel named 'New China TV' which uploaded a videoof sound fountains and claimed the video to be of the Cangshan Mountain in North China's Shanxi Province.

A closer look at the beginning of the video shows the location, similar to that in the viral video.

New China TV is the official YouTube channel of Chinese News Agency Xinhua News which also uploaded the YouTube video on its official Facebook page.

The YouTube channel of Himalaya Music Fountain says, Shout fountain or voice-controlled is installed with a voice control system. When people input sound through a microphone, the sound is converted to signals and passed to the control system, finally to control the water spray height by control system." The YouTube channel had many such videos of sound fountains.

Read other fact Check stories:

Fact Check: Viral claim that Congress workers were beaten up for anti-national speech on budget day is false

Fact Check: PM Modi's comments on hanging misreported by news agency

Fact Check: Ganga Expressway is not the longest as claimed by UP CM Yogi

Fact Check: No, Priyanka Gandhi is not drunk in this viral video