A set of images of JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh, who was in JNU hostile during the violence, is viral in which the bandage on her hand is seen on different hands, on left in first image, while on right in second. It’s viral claiming that she was pretending her hand to be injured and made a grave mistake by bandaging wrong hand which exposed her fake injury.

Shefali Vaidya tweeted –

“Alhamleninallah! It is a miracle. Aishee Ghosh’s broken hand got healed in a day and got broken again! @ anuragkashyap72 couldn’t you coach these dingbats in continuity?”

An Author of Swarajya Mag, Shefali’s tweet was retweeted more than 2000 times, deleted now, but archived here

Gaurav Pradhan’s tweet has been retweeted more than 1000 times

Archive

Odd days it’s right!

On even days it’s left! Comrades, your show is spectacular, bring it on !!! pic.twitter.com/3Hg19ngP7v — ProfMKay🇮🇳 (@ProfMKay) January 10, 2020

Truth

Aishe’s left hand is injured in the violence. The other photo which shows her right hand injured is actually edited. It’s been flipped horizontally/mirrored, which switches left part on right and vice versa.

There had been many such Fake News debunked earlier, Ex MP CM Shivraj Chauhan’s hand injury, the hand with which Rahul Gandhi was saluting the National Flag.

The top left image out of the three which is viral is Fake/edited. You can see while a white colored placard is on her left, the men, a bald one and another with beard are actually sitting on her right.

In her press conference video below, you can see the white colored placard is on her right while both men, the bals and the one with the beard are on her right

The bottom photo is the real one, published in Indian Express

Director Anurag Kashyap tweeted a photo of Shefali Vaidya with similar editing to prove the editing to her

यह हैं भक्त । एक फ़ोटो को horizontally flip कर के continuityसिखा रहे हैं । किसी भी फ़ोन पे हो सकता है मैडम । VFX सीख लो ज़्यादा अच्छा काम करोगे https://t.co/sY0387HolR pic.twitter.com/G6sNbbaZhs — Anurag Kashyap (@anuragkashyap72) January 10, 2020

Similar FakeNews were viral last year

Did Shivraj Singh Chahuan change plaster from one hand to another ? https://t.co/n1aj5p7KYJ pic.twitter.com/XIWrOHQc7L — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) October 3, 2019

When Swamy ji believes in Photoshop too ! https://t.co/0lidiGuTHL pic.twitter.com/v4VwLDaXre — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) October 30, 2017