River Cauvery brings out the same kind of emotion to the people of Southern parts of India as the river Ganges to North Indians.

Recently a video has gone viral which shows a stream of water flows over dry land and people pay respect to it.

Many netizens have posted this video and claimed this to be a sort of miracle associated with Cauvery river which flows only once a year through Mayarav village in TamilNadu.

advertisement

Many Facebook users have posted this video with caption in English saying, "River Cauvery is arriving into a village.....Mayavaram in Tamil Nadu. It comes only 1 day b4 Navarathiri every year n goes back after Deepavali naturally. Beautiful sight a real essence of life...simply divine of onlookers (sic)."

India Today Anti Fake News War room ( AFWA) found this post to be half true.

This viral video is of Cauvery river flowing through Mayavaram or Mayarav village in TamilNadu in 2017.

The water was released by the nearby dam on the occasion to celebrate a 12-day religious festival called Cauvery Maha Pushkaram.

This particular viral video is available on the internet since 2017.

Several Facebook users have posted this on their page.

With the help of keyword search, we found several YouTubers like CHATTISGARH DIGEST and AHI JEET have uploaded this video in 2017.

In 2017, a 12-day religious festival called Cauvery Maha Pushkaram took place in Mayiladuthurai town in Tamil Nadu which is also known as Mayavaram or Mayarav.

The mega event happened during September 12- 24 and lakhs of pilgrims had gathered here to take a holy dip in Cauvery to celebrate it.

But according to newspaper reports, the organisers requested the concerned authorities to release water in the dry Cauvery river bed from the nearby dam for the event.

Later, following the request by the organisers water was released from the nearby dam over Cauvery in September 2017, for the Maha Pushkaram festival. It was reported by the The Hindu.

There are various mythological stories associated with river Cauvery, which people believe with the utmost respect. But the water which is seen flowing in the viral video is not a natural phenomenon, it was brought artificially for the particular event.