Udaipur police confirmed that the video shows a violent riot that broke out inside the Chirwa tunnel in Udaipur.

A video showing a few people assaulting each other and bullet shots heard is widely circulating on social media with a claim that the video is from Jaipur’s Transport Nagar tunnel. Users claim that the video shows an incident of firing in Jaipur’s Transport Nagar tunnel.

The caption of the video states “Firing in Jaipur’s Transport Nagar Tunnel.”

(Hindi: जयपुर की ट्रांसपोर्ट नगर सुरंग में हुई फायरिंग|)

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google that led us to the YouTube channel of Zee Rajasthan that posted the same video on 4 March 2022. According to the description of the video, it is from Udaipur showing Chirwa tunnel. You can read Zee News India’s report on the incident here.

The caption of the video states “Udaipur | The rioting of youths inside Chirwa Tunnel, police engaged in investigation | Viral video”

News18 Virals posted the video on 5 March 2022 and stated that more than half a dozen youths created ruckus inside the Chirwa Tunnel on Nathdwara Highway in Udaipur. During this uproar, the youths fired their pistols in the air. This incident is claimed to have taken place on the day of Mahashivratri.

We found that Udaipur Police had posted a clarification on the viral video mentioning that the violent riot shown in the video did take place inside the Chirwa tunnel on the Nathdwara Highway. After investigation, they have found that the sound of hitting the bikes with sticks was misinterpreted as gun firing. The police has not been notified of any incident related to firing in the area.

उक्त मामले में चिरवा टनल में फायरिंग की कोई घटना नहीं हुई है। इस संबंध में वायरल हो रहे वीडियो की जांच की जा रही है।इसमें जूम इन देखा गया है, जिसमें लाठी-डंडे लेकर बाइक पर मारने की आवाज को फायरिंग माना जा रहा है, ऐसा कोई मामला पुलिस के संज्ञान में नहीं आया है। — Udaipur Police (@UdaipurPolice) March 4, 2022

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the video to be Partly False. The viral video is not from Jaipur but from Udaipur, Rajasthan. Udaipur police confirmed that the video shows a violent riot that broke out inside the Chirwa tunnel in Udaipur. The Police has also confirmed that the sound of hitting bikes with sticks has been misinterpreted as gun firing.