Recently, on Wednesday, November 10, several news channels and news portals published reports of the shooting of national level wrestler Nisha Dahiya and her brother Suraj by unknown assailants in Sonipat, Haryana

The report claimed that Nisha was shot when she was returning home from Sushil Kumar Wrestling Academy in Halalpur, Sonepat. It was also said that the bodies of both were sent for postmortem and Nisha’s mother was admitted to the PGI Hospital in Rohtak in a critical condition.

Fact-Check:

The claim of Nisha Dahiya’s death said in the media report is false.

Wrestler Sakshi Malik, a close friend of Nisha Dahiya, tweeted a photo with Nisha, saying, “She is alive.”

At the same time, it was found in the investigation that the wrestler killed in a local academy was another Nisha Dahiya and not the national level wrestler athlete Nisha Dahiya. As claimed in the media reports.

Wrestler shot dead in Sonepat is newcomer Nisha Dahiya, not U-23 world championship bronze-medallist: Coach, who travelled with Indian team — Press Trust of India (@PTI_News) November 10, 2021

Apart from this, the coach who was traveling with the Indian team told PTI that the wrestler who was shot dead in Sonipat was a newcomer named Nisha Dahiya. Along with Olympic medalist Sakshi Malik, Nisha says in the video that she is in Gonda, Uttar Pradesh for the Senior National Meet.

#WATCH | "I am in Gonda to play senior nationals. I am alright. It's a fake news (reports of her death). I am fine," says wrestler Nisha Dahiya in a video issued by Wrestling Federation of India. (Source: Wrestling Federation of India) pic.twitter.com/fF3d9hFqxG — ANI (@ANI) November 10, 2021

It was later learned that a wrestler named Nisha Yadav was shot dead near the academy. Angry villagers set fire to the academy due to the incident. The killers have been identified as Pawan and Sachin.

Haryana: A wrestler & her brother shot dead in Sonipat, their mother hospitalised after being shot SP Sonipat Rahul Sharma says, "This Nisha Dahiya (shot dead) & medalist wrestler Nisha Dahiya are 2 different people. The medalist wrestler belongs to Panipat & is at an event now" pic.twitter.com/2lP1Qzt9a8 — ANI (@ANI) November 10, 2021

Sonipat SP Rahul Sharma also tweeted, “This Nisha Dahiya (shot killed) and medal winning wrestler Nisha Dahiya are two different people. The medal winning wrestler is from Panipat and is currently in an event.”

The above analysis shows that there has been no such attack on national level wrestler Nisha Dahiya and her family. The bronze medalist of the Under-23 World Championships is alive.

So this claim is false.