Recently, Union Minister Smriti Irani and her daughter Zoish Irani have been in the news for the Goa bar controversy. He was accused of operating the bar on the basis of a fake license.

Meanwhile, a picture was shared on social media claiming that Smriti Irani says that her daughter is 18 years old and is still pursuing education. But Smriti Irani shares the engagement photo of her daughter on 25 December 2021. That is, she is committing a crime by doing child marriage of the daughter and running the licensed bar in the name of the dead person.

Source: FB

Sharing the picture, a user wrote that ‘Smriti Irani today on the clarification of her daughter says that she is just 18 years old and is taking education….! So on Saturday 25 December 2021, Smriti Irani expresses happiness by sharing her daughter’s engagement photo, it means Smriti Irani is getting her daughter married. Crime is committed both in child marriage and also in running a bar with a license in the name of a dead person. Now it is for Narendra Modi ji to think whether he will take action against Smriti Irani or not….!

Source: FB

Fact Check:

DFRAC did a reverse search image of the viral image to check the above claim. During this our team found a post on Instagram from Smriti Irani’s official account. In which the viral picture was also shared.

Source: Instagram

Sharing the picture, she wrote, ‘This is for the man who now has our heart. Arjun Bhalla Welcome to our crazy family. Bless you for the fact that you have to deal with a madman as father-in-law and worse me as a mother-in-law. (Warning you officially) God bless you.

Apart from this, we also got a report from TV9Hindi. In which it was told that Shanelle Irani, daughter of Smriti Irani, has got engaged. Smriti Irani has given this information through one of her social media posts on the evening of 25 December. Smriti Irani’s daughter Shanelle is engaged to her long-time boyfriend Arjun Bhalla.

Source: TV9Hindi

In the pictures shared by Smriti Irani on her Instagram, Shanel and Arjun are seen at a very beautiful location. In one of these pictures, Arjun was seen kneeling and wearing an engagement ring to Shaneel. At the same time, the second picture is a selfie, in which Shanel looked very happy with Arjun and also flaunted her engagement ring.

conclusion:

Hence the claim of Zoish Irani’s engagement is fake. Because the viral picture is of Shaneel Irani and Arjun Bhalla’s engagement.

Claim Review: Smriti Irani’s daughter Joish Irani’s engagement pic

Claimant: Facebook User

Fact Check: Fake