On May 22, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in West Bengal and Odisha to conduct an aerial survey of the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan in the two states.

Soon after, a video going viral on social media shows Modi walking towards a chopper, with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and some others in tow. Chants of “Chowkidar Chor Hai” can be heard in the background. It is being sarcastically claimed that this was how the PM was welcomed in Bengal.

advertisement

The “Chowkidar Chor Hai” slogan was coined by the Congress against Modi in its general election campaign last year.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is edited. Slogans of “Chowkidar Chor Hai” have been superimposed in the video. In the original video, people can be heard chanting “Jai Shree Ram” and calling Mamata “didi”. The video was shot when Modi was emerging out of a review meeting on Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal’s Basirhat on May 22.

The video is quite viral on Facebook. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

With the help of Bangla keywords, we found the same video, posted by some Facebook users on May 22. In these videos, slogans of “Jai Shree Ram” can be heard and not “Chowkidar Chor Hai”. The caption says it is from Basirhat College.

Facebook page “Bengal Times 24x7” also went live on May 22 when Modi was leaving Basirhat College after a review meeting on Cyclone Amphan with state officials. This Facebook Live was also streamed from the same location where the viral video was made. In the Facebook Live too, slogans of “Jai Shree Ram” can be heard, but not “Chowkidar Chor Hai”.

A journalist of Bengali news channel “ABP Ananda”, Abdul Wahab, was present at Basirhat College on May 22. He too told us that people were raising “Jai Shree Ram” slogans when they saw Modi. He didn’t hear slogans of “Chowkidar Chor Hai”.

We also reached out to the Superintendent of Police of Basirhat, Kankar Prasad Barui, regarding the video. Prasad confirmed to us that the viral video is fake and no such slogans were raised during Modi’s visit.

The deadly Cyclone Amphan has claimed at least 72 lives in West Bengal and CM Mamta Banerjee said that the state suffered losses worth more than Rs 1 lakh crore. During his visit to West Bengal, PM Modi announced a rehabilitation package of Rs 1,000 crore for the state. He also said that Rs 2 lakh would be given to the families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured.