A video showing a crackdown by security forces at a metro station is going viral on social media with the claim that this is how police in China are facing difficulties while catching people infected from coronavirus.

The three-minute video shows security personnel, some in masks, chasing people at a subway, pinning them down and dragging them away. Some rush into a train to beat up people with batons, while others are seen spraying something into compartments.

advertisement

Facebook user "Iqbal Choudhary" posted the video along with a claim in Hindi that translates to, "If you want to see the havoc caused due to corona, see his video from China. If you look at the difficulties faced by police and administration to catch people in the grip of this epidemic, you'll be surpised."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This video has nothing to do with the COVID-19 pandemic. It was shot last year in September during Hong Kong's ongoing pro-democracy protest.

Many Facebook users shared the video with the misleading claim.

With help of InVID reverse research, we found a detailed report by Daily Mail carrying the viral video.

The report was published on September 1, 2019, and details the pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong which was started in June last year against the introduction of the Fugitive Offenders amendment bill by the Hong Kong government.

The protests went on for months with demonstrators blocking roads and clashing with police. The coronavirus scare has recently subdued the protests but they are still on. The viral video is also a part of this protest and it shows police crackdown on protesters at Prince Edward MTR Station of Hong Kong.

Many such videos and reports of clashes are available on the Internet.

However, as per a report by Daily Mail, some shocking videos have indeed emerged of Chinese policemen locking up suspected coronavirus patients in their homes and vigilantes beating up a sufferer's family members, as the country tries to battle the novel coronavirus.

But the viral video was shot in September 2019 and has no relation with the coronavirus pandemic.