Spread the truth:

A lot of tweets were made yesterday using images of farmers etc., showing their plight, by Congress official accounts, Priyanka Gandhi and others, to criticize the Farm Bill in parallel with farmers’ protests.

The posts/tweets had a message/text along with a photo of farmers or other relevant stuff.

Given the stature of a national party, verified accounts, thus making them responsible, using such images obviously means that the photo is related to the text proving it right otherwise one should use the word “Representational image” or some similar words on or with the image which they didn’t.

Photos used –

First

Revenues generated from the Mandis enabled local & State administrations to carry out rural development initiatives. The BJP in one disastrous sweep has wiped away not only our farmers' but entire rural India's chances for a prosperous future.#DeshKiBaat pic.twitter.com/AeviGgrhkK — Congress (@INCIndia) September 24, 2020

archive

archive

Photo from Congress rule –

The above article was published 8 years ago, Nov 2012

Source: The Economist

Second

Below is a screenshot from a small video tweeted (tweet below the image). Claiming Modi showed dreams but didn’t work on them, the below photo claiming to be no work done on Ganga river.

archive

Photo from Congress rule –

Source – Weather.com, Third Slide. Seven years old, April 2013

Third

Priyanka Gandhi posted a mono-color photo of a farmer which was retweeted by more than 3600 times

भाजपा के कृषि बिल के पहले- MSP = किसानों के लिए न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य (Minimum Support Price) बिल पास हो जाने के बाद- MSP = पूंजीपतियों के लिए मैक्सिमम सपोर्ट इन प्रॉफिट (Maximum Support in Profit) किसान कहां जाएगा? pic.twitter.com/EKWMzWIYRg — Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) September 24, 2020

archive

Photo from Congress rule –

Earlist we could find this is 9 years ago. i.e. Aug 2011, uploaded on Flickr

Amar Ujala, a daily newspaper used this photo in Sep 2013 i.e. 7 years ago

Similarly, there were few other images used, either from 2014 or before but sources we found were blogs etc, not solid proofs, so we couldn’t include.

Related