Dulquer Salmaan’s ‘Salute’ is one of the most awaited releases of the year for Malayalam movie lovers. The superstar’s fans were further elated when some on social media claimed that the Rosshan Andrrews directorial will feature at the 51st edition of the International Film Festival Rotterdam (IFFR 2022).



“Salute receives Green Mat entry to the famous Rotterdam Film Festival,” reads a Malayalam post on Facebook.

advertisement

Many news websites also reported that ‘Salute’ is among the Indian movies to be screened at the prestigious film festival.

However, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. While four Malayalam movies have found place in the 10-strong Indian list for the fest, ‘Salute’ is not among them. Also, there is no category called “Green Mat” at the IFFR.

AFWA probe

Noted director Don Palathara, whose “Everything is Cinema” had premiered at the fest earlier, questioned reports of Salute’s screening in IFFR through Facebook on January 7.

“Several local and national media have reported that Salute is selected for IFFR. They have copy-pasted a press release written by someone even without running a simple Google search,” Don’s post read.

“In an email exchange, IFFR had told the ‘Salute’ crew that they can consider the movie if sent. But in no manner did they confirm its inclusion in the fest. This email was used as the source of a press release based on which these reports were made. Media houses that have realised the truth have published clarifications,” Palathara further said.

“I had spoken to Stefan Borsos, an IFFR official. He confirmed that ‘Salute’ has not made the cut. The list is now available on their website,” he added.

Following this clue, we checked the IFFR website for the list of Indian movies to be screened. We found that ‘Salute’ was not among the 10 movies listed on the website under the filter “Produced in India”.

Four Malayalam films Chavittu, The Harbour, Hawk’s Muffin and Malik are named in the list, along with ‘The Cloud Messenger’, ‘Urf’, ‘Duvidha’, ‘Crescent Night’, ‘Murmurs of the Jungle’ and ‘Madhu’. The details of these movies, along with the category they’ll feature in, can be read on the IFFR website here.

Despite repeated efforts, Salute’s director Rosshan Andrrews and PRO Manju Gopinath were unavailable for comment. This article will be updated once their response comes in.

advertisement

But some news websites and social media posts have claimed that the movie is a “Green Mat entry” to the event.

To confirm if this could be a reason for the omission of ‘Salute’ from the list published, we reached out to Stefan Borsos, a programmer with IFFR. “There is no such category as Green Mat entry at the IFFR. I’ve never heard of it and don’t understand what it’s supposed to mean,” he said.

Borsos also confirmed that ‘Salute’ has not made it to the final list of entries. “Salute” did not make it into the final selection of the 2022 edition of the festival, and hence, will not be screened,” he added.

Prominent news websites such as “The Indian Express”, “News 18 Malayalam”, “The Cue” and “Cinestaan” have clarified that ‘Salute’ will not feature at the Rotterdam film festival.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the viral claim of Dulquer Salmaan’s ‘Salute’ being selected for the International Film Festival Rotterdam 2022 is misleading.



(Inputs from Bechu S in Thiruvananthapuram)