Spread the truth:

An image featuring Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going viral on Twitter and Facebook. It has aroused intrigue in netizens on both platforms. The reason behind it is an umbrella in PM Modi’s hand. Netizens across both social media platforms are sharing it widely and have several interesting comments about it.

Claims: In the image, PM Narendra Modi is holding a blue umbrella with Reliance Jio’s logo on it while addressing the 2021 Parliament Monsoon session’s press conference. A Twitter user with the username @GENERAL_DILAWAR tweeted the image and wrote, “It may be inadvertent or overlooked. This amounts to #Advertisement of #Jio @pmo must check & avoid this to avoid embarrassment of dear PM @narendramodi Jee. Hope you will be careful If the umbrella was handed by the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs they must rectify their system.”

Similarly, many other users shared it on Twitter and on Facebook.

Twitter

It may be inadvertant or overlooked

This amounts to #Advertisement of #Jio@pmo must check & avoid this to avoid embarrassment of dear PM @narendramodi Jee Hope you will be careful If the umbrella was handed by Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs they must rectify their system

. pic.twitter.com/mfudB01IIp — DILAWAR SINGH (Religion 🇮🇳) (@GENERAL_DILAWAR) July 20, 2021

archive

Inko dekhakar lagta hai kya

Inhone kabhi Rly Platform par Chai bechi hogi???🤔🤔🤔 pic.twitter.com/cvRWebCJyb — mads@humanbeingofmumbai (@madshumanbeing1) July 20, 2021

Facebook

Truth

No, Prime Minister is not holding an umbrella with Jio’s brand logo during the 2021 Monsoon session’s press conference.

A press release of the monsoon session of parliament 2021 published on the official website of the Press Information Bureau featured the following images.

In all three images, it is visible that the prime minister is holding an ordinary, dark-grey umbrella over his head and not the one with a Jio logo, as depicted in the viral image.

Furthermore, we found a link to the following video uploaded on the official YouTube channel of PM Modi.

In the video at 2:13, the camera starts zooming out and reveals the umbrella that, quite evidently, is not the one with Jio branding. In addition to that, changing the umbrella mid-conference is out of the question since the video evidence is a single shot with no cuts.

Now, we ran a reverse image search to find the original, unedited copy of the particular photo that went viral. We found the viral image in the following article published by a website named News Today.

Also, we found that a Twitter user also tweeted the unedited picture as a reply to one such viral post.

Hence, we can conclude that the image is completely fake. PM Modi did not hold an umbrella with Jio branding while addressing a press conference.

Related