A high alert has been sounded in multiple states across South India along with Maharashtra and Gujarat in view of heavy rainfall. In this backdrop, a viral video of a jeep being swept away in floods is doing rounds online. Many users are claiming that the video is from Nanded in Maharashtra while some are linking it to Telangana.

A Facebook user posted the video with the caption: जल्दबाजी हमेशा घातक होती है … घटना कल शाम हिमायतनगर नांदेड़ महाराष्ट्र कि है (Translation: Haste is always fatal… the incident happened last evening in Himayatnagar Nanded Maharashtra)

This video can also be seen here.

Some users are also linking this video to tragedy that befell Telugu news channel NTV reporter Zameer who was swept away by flood waters while he was travelling in a car with his friend near Ramajipeta village, in Telangana’s Bornapalli.

You can find the link here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile conducted a fact-check and found the video to be shared with a misleading claim.

On closely monitoring the frames of the video, we noticed a logo on the spare tire cover of the jeep. On zooming in, we could see the logo of Suzuki along with an image of a rhino and POTOHAR 4WD written below it.

On running a Google keyword search, we found out that Potohar is a jeep model in Pakistan, manufactured by Suzuki motors from 1985-2006.

Taking the cue from this, we, then, ran a reverse image search of the keyframes. Our search led us to a YouTube video from September 7, 2020, titled: Accident of Potohar jeep due to flood|bad accident. The keyframes from the viral video match exactly one of the videos on YouTube.

Lastly, we ran a google keyword search on journalist Zameer’s accident in Telangana. We found out that the accident took place on July 12, 2022. Various media houses, including ABP Live, reported the story online.

Other reports can be read here, here, and here. Also, the car in which he was travelling, was a red Swift Dezire as opposed to Suzuki Potohar shown in the viral video.

Therefore, based on our investigation, the viral video shared online is neither from Maharashtra nor is it linked to the Telangana tragedy. The video is from Pakistan.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news