Unlike many virus cures and home remedies, here’s an oft-repeated claim on social media, opposing 5G mobile phone networks and attributing the spread of coronavirus to 5G towers, which are increasingly becoming the target of attacks in Britain and Canada now.

Fifth-generation wireless technology or 5G, is the latest cellular technology that builds on previous generations like 4G and 3G and it is up to 100 times faster than 4G and offers better connectivity, according to the Communications Research Centre of Canada.

DigitEye received several fact-check requests on WhatsApp about the link between 5G and coronavirus. One such claim was over an Instagram episode of the podcast of London Real, hosted by Brian Rose featuring David Icke, a conspiracy theorist, and a former footballer and sports broadcaster. Icke speaks about the existence of coronavirus and its link to 5G. Here’s the link:

https://www.instagram.com/tv/B_5EipSDNMv/

The ‘Stop 5G UK’ group is in the forefront with conspiracy theories and information that is the farthest from fact. They propose that the 5G networks cause radiation that amplifies the virus, while others suggested that the virus is a cover-up for the installation of 5G towers. Another extreme claim is that the 5G is a sinister design to depopulate planet earth and coronavirus is one of the means.

Here’s another paper that explains, scientifically, how the two are related.

/p>

Fact Check

These conspiracy theories coupled with scientific explanation continue to unfurl since the origin of the outbreak in Wuhan, China, where 5G became a reality first. As per one report, “Wuhan, capital of Hubei, is one of the first pilot cities of the 5G network in China. So far, 5G technology has been applied in various fields in the city, including intelligent education, intelligent medical treatment, driverless vehicles, intelligent tourism, smart transportation and intelligent enterprises.”

However, coronavirus which was rampant in Iran where no 5G towers are even in planning stage, stares at this argument to rule out the link from any general perception.

These theories deduce that the superpower network has the ability to strain immune systems and is the main cause of the severity of the common cold. While it is true that 5G coverage has been rolled out in Wuhan, it was used at the 7th CISM Military World Games, airport, railway station and major business circles, and some universities, but the claim has no scientific evidence connecting 5G to the coronavirus.

Here’s a graph showing how 5G is safer from harmful radiation (in green box) waves (Ofcom):

As of now, there is no scientific confirmation if 5G is harmful to health. Even the World Health Organization (WHO) said, “Despite extensive research, to date, there is no evidence to conclude that exposure to low-level electromagnetic fields is harmful to human health.”

Claim: Exposure to 5G waves radiation is harmful to health.

Conclusion: There is no scientific evidence behind the claim that coronavirus is spread by 5G towers or technology.

Rating: Misinterpretation —