A video has gone viral on social media claiming that some men participated in the Shaheen Bagh protests wearing burqas and posing as women. In the video, it can be seen that a person is being beaten up by a few men. It is being claimed that the incident happened in Shaheen Bagh while he was participating in the ongoing protest against CAA and NRC.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The 2-min and 14-second long video is from Panaji, the capital of Goa, where a man was caught upon entering a women's toilet and was beaten up.



A Facebook user Sonu Gupta has posted this video with the caption, "Fallen positions of Jihadi. Only women are not wearing burqas in Shaheen Bagh protest. Men are also protesting wearing burqas. These illeterate people now want to capture the burqa of poor Muslim women too".

The post was shared by many users. Here is the archive of the post.

We tried to locate the origin of the video through keyword search. We searched 'man in burqa beaten up' and found a number of media reports. On February 17, 2019, Dainik Bhaskar published an article with a screen shot from the same video. The Times of India also published a report on February 18, 2019.

According to media reports, on February 16, 2019, in Panaji, a man named Virgil Fernandes had entered the women's toilet at a bus stand wearing a burqa. A few women inside the toilet got suspicious upon seeing his activities and raised alarm. Finding himself caught and cornered, the man tried to flee from the spot but was nabbed by some men present nearby. He was then thrashed. A police case was also filed against him.

'Awake Goans News' had uploaded the video on YouTube on February 16, 2019 with a caption, 'Burkha man Virgil Fernandes arrested by Panjim police for allegedly impersonating as muslim woman'.

Last year, the same video had gone viral with a different claim that said the man, a member of the RSS and the BJP, had been trying to portray Muslims in bad light by mischievously wearing the burqa. At that time, boomlive had debunked the claim.

So it is clear that the video has nothing to do with Shaheen Bagh and it is an old video from Panaji, Goa.