A news article is doing the rounds on social media claiming that Indian soldiers raped a young Naga mother in Kohima. The viral news article also carries a photo of a semi-nude girl and an image of a young girl, holding a kid whose face is blurred.

The article is published by a website called Republicofbuzz which says that a group of nine patrolling Indian soldiers raped a young Naga mother in Jotsoma village near Kohima.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News (AFWA) found the viral news article to be fake. Recently, no such incident of rape took place in Nagaland. The photos, used in the article are also taken from multiple unrelated websites.

The news piece, published on January 22 2020, has already been shared widely on Facebook and Twitter. Archived of the viral post can be seen here.

With the help of reverse search, we found that the images used in the article are taken from a porn website and another website called Jhpiego.org.

Picture 1

This photo is available in one of the stories of Jhpiego.org.

Jhpiego is an international non-profit health organization which is affiliated to Johns Hopkins University of Maryland, US.

As per the website, this is the photo of one Philippian girl Garneth Sebial with her son. The website also narrates the story of this girl who got pregnant at her teenage after engaged in premarital sex. The story about this girl was published on July 10, 2017.

Picture 2

This picture, showing a semi-nude girl, was appeared in a photo gallery of a porn website on May 3, 2019. We are not hyperlinking the URL as objectionable content is used in the photo gallery.

India Today also reached out to Addl. Superintendent of Police in Kohima Tali Imchang. He also said that the viral news article is fake and there is no such rape incident reported in Kohima recently.

Using related keywords, we also scanned the prominent news websites of Nagaland but couldn’t find any recent article on such incidents of rape.

Also read: Fact Check: No, this is not a fingerprint shaped village in Germany

Also read: Fact Check: No, India has not developed any treatment for coronavirus