India has been witnessing movements for and against Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens for more than a month now. Social media too has turned out to be another platform for debates, and often, misinformation.

A video showing a man smearing ink on another man’s face and beating him with slippers is going viral on social media with the claim that the victim is a BJP leader and former Haj committee chairman.

advertisement

Facebook page I support Advocate D.s Bindra posted the 25-second video with a caption in Hindi which translates to, In Indore, BJP leader and former Haj committee chairman Inayat Hussain had ink smeared on his face and was bashed with slippers for openly supporting CAA and NPR. Congratulations to such Muslims.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The viral video is not from Indore but Ajmer in Rajasthan and is two years old. It has nothing to do with CAA. Also, the person being beaten in the video is Abdul Majeed Chishti and not Inayat Hussain.

Till the filing of this story, the video has already been viewed over 72,000 times and shared almost 3,000 times. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

To verify the claim, we reverse-searched key frames from the video using InVID tool that led to the same video on YouTube, uploaded by MTTV INDIA on March 12, 2018. The Hindi caption along with the video translates to, Anjuman Shaikhzadgan’s secretary’s face blackened.

We searched for media reports with the help of keywords related to the caption on YouTube and came across news articles by Nai Dunia and News18 published on March 13, 2018.

According to these reports, Abdul Majeed Chishti, secretary of the Khadim’s organisation Anjuman Shaikhzadgan in Ajmer Sharif Dargah, was beaten up by a fellow member from his organisation. After the incident, Chishti had lodged a complaint against his attacker. Media reports suggest the whole incident was regarding financial irregularities and fraud related to mosque affairs.

According to news published by Patrika, the incident took place on March 11, 2018.

Therefore, it can be said that the viral video is two years old and has nothing to do with CAA. The incident took place not in Indore but Ajmer, and the person beaten up was Abdul Majeed Chishti and not any BJP leader by the name Inayat Hussain.