A video of Rahul Gandhi speaking at a public meeting in Tamil Nadu is viral on social media with the claim that the Congress leader suggested replacing the Indian Army with labourers, farmers and workers at the volatile China border.

In the 26-second video, Gandhi is heard saying, “You are using the Indian Army, the Indian Navy, the Indian Air Force to protect India from China. If you use India’s labourers, India’s farmers, India’s workers, you will not need the Army, Navy and Air Force to be standing over there. China will not have the guts to come inside.”

advertisement

The caption along with one such video says, “Since Rahul Gandhi thinks that Indian Army can be replaced by Farmers & labourers, We request #NarendraModi ji #AmitShah ji please remove the VIP security provided to #rahulgandhi & replace it by Indian Farmers & labourers.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral clip is taken out of context from a longer speech Gandhi made on BJP’s economic policies. He was accusing the Centre of favouring a few big industrialists instead of helping the farmers and labourers of the country. Gandhi said China gathered strength to intrude into India due to the country’s weakening economy.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of keyword search, we found the longer version of the video uploaded on the official YouTube channel of Rahul Gandhi on January 24, 2021. The video description says, “Interaction with weaver community at Odanilai, Erode”.

After listening to this hour-long interaction, it can be clearly understood that Gandhi was speaking in the context of India’s economy and did not suggest replacing the Indian Army with labourers or farmers.

In his speech, Gandhi accused the Centre of favouring a few big industrialists. He said if the government had instead focused on making the country’s economy self-sufficient by strengthening farmers, weavers and labourers, China would not have gathered the confidence to intrude into Indian territory. The Congress leader was responding to a demand by one of the weavers for special protection policies for the power loom sector.

“China has seen that the Indian economy is on its knees. China can see that every single action of the Indian government is designed to strengthen five or six businesspeople and weaken India’s real strength the labourers, the workers, and the weavers. I can guarantee you that if India’s labourers, farmers and weavers were strong, were protected, and were given opportunities, China would never dare to come inside India,” Gandhi is heard saying in the video.

He further says that if farmers, small and medium businesses were strong, then China, including its President, would be using products manufactured in India.

advertisement

“I can also guarantee you that if India’s farmers, labourers, small and medium businesses were strong, then the President of China would be wearing a shirt made in India. I can guarantee you that Chinese people would be driving Indian cars, that Chinese people would be flying Indian airplanes, that Chinese houses would have Indian carpets. Why is this not happening? Because our government is insisting on helping five to six of India’s rich businesspeople and killing and destroying India’s true strength,” he added.

It was only after this that Gandhi said, “You are using the Indian Army, the Indian Navy, the Indian Air Force to protect India from China. If you use India’s labourers, India’s farmers, India’s workers, you will not need the Army, Navy and Air Force to be standing over there. China will not have the guts to come inside.” This can be heard at 17 minutes and 12 seconds into the original video.

Several media houses had also reported Gandhi’s interaction with the weavers at Erode. The Congress leader was on a three-day campaign tour of Tamil Nadu for the upcoming assembly elections.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video has been taken out of context. Gandhi was blaming India’s “weak economy” for Chinese intrusion and not suggesting replacing the Indian Army with labourers, farmers and workers.

advertisement

READ | Country's loss...: Rahul Gandhi as clashes break out during farmers' tractor rally

READ | Mr 56 hasn't said 'China' in months: Rahul Gandhi's jibe at PM Modi after India-China clash in Sikkim

WATCH | Edited clip of Mamata reciting Islamic prayers linked to Netaji event controversy