The former Prime Minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, had earlier accused the United States of conspiring against him. Following Shehbaz Sharif replacing Khan as the PM, a video went viral on social media claiming that US President Joe Biden celebrated Khan’s ouster.

A 22-second-long video featuring Biden and a woman was shared by many. In that video, the two watched the telecast of the election results from Pakistan’s parliament after the no-confidence motion against Khan.

advertisement

Both Biden and the lady looked anxious at first. Soon, however, they rejoiced when the no-confidence motion was passed against Khan. Following this, they hugged each other. A female voice said, "We did it. We did it, Joe."

Live from White House US President Joe Biden celebrating the defeat of PM Imran Khan and victory of Shahbaz Sharif. #__ #__ #____ pic.twitter.com/KLLXvFZztY — CHEEMA SAHAB (@zbcheema) April 11, 2022

People on Twitter shared this video with captions like, "Live from White House US President Joe Biden celebrating the defeat of PM Imran Khan and victory of Shahbaz Sharif."

Archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this was a digitally altered video. Biden was not watching Pakistan’s parliamentary proceedings; he was watching Vice President Kamal Harris making a historic announcement.

AFWA Probe

We reverse-searched keyframes from the viral video, which took us to a France24 report from April 8, 2022. The cover image in the news report appeared similar to the scene in the viral video.

The report was about Ketanji Brown Jackson’s confirmation by the US Senate as the first Black woman to serve on the Supreme Court.

A report by the Washington Examiner carried an image of Biden hugging Jackson, which seemed to be similar to the frame in the final seconds of the video.

We found the US President's official Twitter account also shared the same video on April 8, alongside the text, "Historic moment for our courts and for our country. Congratulations, Judge Jackson."

Historic moment for our courts and for our country. Congratulations, Judge Jackson. pic.twitter.com/eLSfs1QoHB — President Biden (@POTUS) April 7, 2022

In that video, we saw Vice President Harris announcing the results of the votes in the US Senate. After the announcement, Biden congratulated Jackson, and she replied, "Thank you, sir."

No one said, "We did it. We did it, Joe."

Thus, we concluded that this video did not show Biden celebrating Imran Khan’s ouster as Pakistani Prime Minister.