With preparations for the "bhoomi pujan" of the Ram mandir at Ayodhya in full swing, a colourful sketch of a beautiful temple with golden domes and water bodies is circulating on social media with the claim that this is how the grand Ram temple will look like.

The picture is being shared with text such as "Beautiful design of the Ram temple being built at Ayodhya. Congratulations to all the devotees of Lord Rama" and "This is how the proposed Ram temple at Ayodhya will look like. All Hindu brothers should share it". The viral post also mentions a 2,100-kg bell that would be placed at the temple.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The viral image is the 3D visualisation of an under-construction temple of ISKCON in West Bengal.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching the image, we found it on the ISKCON website along with a report on the "Temple of Vedic Planetarium" being constructed at Mayapur in West Bengal.

In the website of this temple, we found several images related to its construction. The temple is being built for the last 10 years and is expected to be completed by 2022. It is being said that this would be the world's largest temple.

Media reports related to the under-construction temple can be seen here and here.

How will Ayodhya's Ram temple look like?

The Ram temple at Ayodhya would be 161 feet high with three floors. The initial design of the temple was prepared sometime between 1985 and 1986. The old design has been altered to some extent to enhance its grandeur. The interview of Ram temple architect Nikhil Sompura has been published in various news websites.

In these interviews, he has given elaborate information about the design of the Ram temple. The proposed design can be seen below. One can easily make out that this picture has no resemblance to the viral picture.

The social media claim also talks about a 2,100-kg bell that would be placed at the temple. We found media reports from last year which touched upon the subject. As per reports, around 50 people were involved in the making of this bell worth Rs 10 lakh. The current status of the bell is not known.

But it is evident that the image being shared on social media is not a design of the Ram temple at Ayodhya. It is a 3D visualisation of an under-construction ISKCON temple at Mayapur in West Bengal. Fact-check website "Factly" had also debunked this claim earlier.