A message going around in whatsapp, with a hashtag #phirekbaarModisarkar, alleged that a youth in Bengal was arrested because he pointed out on Facebook, that a national flag had been hoisted upside down at a Trinamool Congress Party office.

The post, other than this message, is full of political rancour against Mamata Banerjee.

The post shows a picture of a man with handcuffs and an image of an inverted national flag in front of a house which looks like a Trinamool Congress party office. On the wall of the house, "Ma Mati Manush" is written. This is the famous slogan of the Trinamool Congress. The location is mentioned on the wall as well. The location is shown to be Khurul in Burdwan district in West Bengal.

advertisement

To find the truth, India Today Fact Check contacted local correspondent Sujata Mehra in Burdwan regarding the incident.

At midnight on August 16, a youth named Amit Ghosh, a resident of Khurul village of Burdwan, and a student of Paramedics posted on Facebook, that the Trinamool Party workers hoisted a national flag upside down on I-day at the local party office.

"I did not click the picture. I was not in my village during Independence Day. My friend posted this photo on Facebook first. I shared it on my page with some critical comments against Trinamool Congress," said Ghosh.

Ghosh admitted to having used some foul language against TMC in that post on Facebook.

According to Amit, local TMC leaders began threatening his father after this post and asked them to withdraw it. On August 17, in the evening, Amit Ghosh posted an apology on Facebook for his comments. "On the same night I was detained from my home and later arrested by police. Claimed Ghosh. Both police report and copy of FIR are in possession of India Today. According to the police report submitted to the court it is written that Amit had uploaded a post through Social Media and used filthy language against the Trinamool workers of the said village. When the villagers along with TMC workers objected to it, Amit refused to do so and used filthy language, attacking them with sharp weapon, the report said. In the FIR lodged by a Trinamool worker, police charged Amit Ghosh with non-bail-able IPC sections 505 (B), 504, 323 and 34. On August 19th , Amit was given bail at the CJM court in Burdwan district. I have been targeted for raising the issue of insult to our Tricolour by the TMC workers, Amit said as the reason behind his arrest. "False allegation have been levelled against me that I have photo-shopped and posted the inverted tricolor picture," added Ghosh. Eventually, the original post by Ghoshs friend who had clicked the Tricolour photo was deleted from Facebook by the user. advertisement Our Fact Check found that it was true that the man who posted the picture of an inverted tricolour on FB alleging TMC workers was indeed arrested. But interestingly, the bone of contention - 'the insult to the national flag' never got a mention in the Police FIR. Police charged Amit Ghosh for allegedly disturbing the public tranquillity.