A clipped video of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and prime minister Narendra Modi from May 22, when they had met for an aerial survey of the havoc created by cyclone Amphan in the state is doing the rounds with misleading claims. The video shows PM Modi exchanging welcome gestures with BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and state president of BJP Mahila Morcha, Locket Chatterjee, as the chief minister appears to ignore him. Also seen in the video is governor Jagdeep Dhankhar.

The video has been shared with a Tamil caption which, when translated to English, reads, "For You, greetings is not necessary. Get out Butter! - Mamata". Original text in Tamil: "உனக்கு வணக்கம் ஒரு கேடு... போய்யா... வெண்ண !! "...- மம்தா." Below is the screenshot of the video.





Click here to see the archive link of the video.

The narrative is viral with a photograph from the same incident.



The image shows the governor of West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankhar joining hands to welcome PM Modi, who can be seen exchanging the same gesture, while Banerjee holds a document in her hand. It is viral with claims that the chief minister refused to greet Narendra Modi, when he landed at the Kolkata airport. The photograph is doing the rounds along with an image of Odisha's chief minister Naveen Patnaik welcoming the PM, as a comparison which calls out Banerjee for showing lack of courtesy on the prime minister's arrival.

Click here to see the post and here for an archived link.



PM Modi visited parts of Amphan hit areas on Friday to survey the devastation. He, along with the governor and Mamata Banerjee went to South 24 Parganas to take stock of the cyclone hit areas. They took part in an administrative meet in Basirhat where PM Modi announced special aid of Rs 1000 crores to restore the areas. The prime minister also went to Odisha for another aerial survey where he meet Naveen Patnaik and announced a package of Rs 500 crores for the state.

Also Read: Does This Video Show Final Moments Before Pak Plane Crash?

Fact Check BOOM went through several videos and found that Mamata Banerjee did not refuse to greet PM Modi, as claimed by the viral posts and clipped video. The videos, reported by ANI and DD News show PM Modi being greeted by Governor Dhankar first, where both exchange pleasantries. Mamata Banerjee can be seen greeting Modi thereafter by joining hands. The two political leaders then exchange pleasantries, after which, Modi moves on to interact with Dilip Ghosh and Locket Chatterjee. The viral video has been cropped from 16 seconds onward to share the narrative.





Screen grabs of PM Modi and Mamata Banerjee's interaction can be seen below.

Delete Edit