A passenger plane with over 130 people on board crashed on Monday afternoon, March 21, in a mountainous area of China. The Boeing 737 plane, operated by China Eastern Airlines, reportedly went down in Guangxi, an autonomous region in southern China.

Even as casualties remained unknown at the time of writing this, a ten-second-long video allegedly from the ill-fated flight went viral on social media.

advertisement

The video, which appears to be taken from the window of a plane, captured the sound of crying passengers. The first few seconds of the video showed the plane tumbling towards the ground. It crashed right before the ten-second mark.

A Boeing 737 just crashed in southern China. This was one of the last moment recorded on the plane. maybe the only moment. Viewers’ discretion advised. pic.twitter.com/rzdRpNBEem — A Bass (@chanteur_sagi) March 21, 2022

“A Boeing 737 just crashed in southern China. This was one of the last moments recorded on the plane. maybe the only moment. Viewers’ discretion advised,” a Twitter user wrote sharing the video.

Archived versions of similar claims can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this claim to be false. The viral video was a computer-generated simulation of another plane crash that took place nearly three years ago.

AFWA Probe

As per news reports, the Chinese plane crashed into a mountain. But in the viral video, we could barely see any mountainous terrain. In the comments under the video, many stated that the video was that of a crashing Ethiopian Airlines plane. Others suggested it was a simulated clip.

Taking this as a cue, we looked for images of Ethiopian Airlines. We compared the logo of Ethiopian Airlines with the logo that appeared on the plane’s wing in the viral video and found them to be the same.

So, does this video capture the final moments of an Ethiopian Airlines plane crash? No.

We reverse-searched frames from the viral video, and it took us to a YouTube video uploaded to a channel called Bull Bosphorus on March 11, 2019.

The video was a simulation of the Ethiopian Airlines crash that occurred on March 10, 2019. A Boeing 737 Max crashed and claimed the lives of 157 people.

In the simulation, the viral clip appears at the 9:33 mark. It was clearly asserted in the description of the video: “This is not exactly what happened, this is only a simulated flight crash for Ethiopian Airlines flight ET302.”

Therefore, it can be concluded that the simulated video of the 2019 Ethiopian crash was falsely shared as the recent crash in Southern China.