The video does not show a Ukrainian drone attacking a Russian Military Airfield. The video is a simulation made using a video game named Arma-3.

In 2021, the Ukrainian military conducted an exercise involving the Baykar Tech Bayraktar TB2 drone, it is now being used to fight Russia’s invading force amidst the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine.

In the backdrop of this, a video showing a drone bombing a Russian military airfield with parked jets and helicopters is widely circulating on social media. The users are claiming that this video shows that Ukraine used their Bayraktar TB2 Drone and attacked the Russian Military airfield base.

The caption of the post states, “On Sunday, Bayraktar TB2 Drone bombed Russian Military Airfield with Jets & Attack Helicopters.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by using a keyword search on YouTube that led us to the video posted by a YouTube channel named Xadarov posted on 9 May 2022 with the caption, “On Sunday, Bayraktar TB2 Drone bombed a Russian Military Airfield with Jets & Attack Helicopters.”

The description of the video clearly mentions that this video is a simulation video and not real. The user has also mentioned that he or she makes military simulation videos using the Arma-3 simulator.

The description reads, “Bayraktar TB2 Turkish drone destroyed Russian Attack Helicopters and Jets on huge Airfield. This type of drone is used in Russia – the Ukraine conflict. Bayraktars destroy Russian convoys, tanks, and vehicles. THIS IS ONLY SIMULATION, NOT REAL LIFE! I make military simulations using Arma 3 Simulator. Bohemia allows making YouTube videos from their game and monetizing it.”

We found that this channel has several such simulation and video game videos.

The “About Us” section of the YouTube channel mentions that the users make simulation videos using Arma-3. It reads, “I make military simulations using Arma 3. Bohemia allows using their applications and monetizing them.”

What is Arma-3?



ARMA 3 is an open-world, realism-based, military tactical shooting video game developed and published by Bohemia Interactive, a Czech video game developer based in Prague.

Fact Crescendo has previously debunked several video game visuals that have been shared as visuals of the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine. You can read it here and here.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the video is shared without any context. The video does not show Ukrainian drone attacking Russian Military Airfield. The video is not real but a simulation of a video game named Arma-3. However, it is true that there are news reports that state that Ukraine is using their drones on Russia.