Did West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee try to appease Muslims and belittle the Hindus in her speech? "Imaan ka naam hai musalmaan (Faith is the other name of Muslims)"--this line attributed to Mamata Bannerjee has gone viral on the social media.

Taking potshot at the Trinamool Congress chief, netizens allege that she actually wanted to portray Hindus in a poor light. India Today TV's Fact Check team found that the allegations are misleading.

advertisement

In fact, the line quoted above, and attributed to Banerjee, is part of an incomplete sentence, which has been extracted deliberately from a particular portion of her speech to spread a false narrative.

Among many Twitter users who have written or posted about this is one Gaurav Pradhan. He is followed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Pradhan has shared a TV news grab which claims that in her speech, Mamata Bannerjee said "Imaan ka naam hai musalmaan". At the time writing this report, Pradhan's post was liked by nearly a thousand people.

Secular vachan



Imagine is she becomes PM? pic.twitter.com/3htflkqdU3 #GauravPradhan (@DrGPradhan) January 20, 2019





Other Twitteretis have also started trolling Mamata Banerjee by accusing her of appeasing Muslims and insulting Hindus by saying "Imaan ka naam hai musalmaan".

There are some Facebook users who have also made the same claim.

India Today's Fact Check team found that this line was taken from Mamata's speech given at the 'United India Rally' on Saturday (January 19) in Kolkata. The rally was attended by Opposition leaders like Arvind Kejriwal, Akhilesh Yadav, Farooq Abdullah, MK Stalin and HD Kumaraswamy. The four hour long event can be seen here.

When one watches Mamata Banerjee's speech at the rally, one can find that close to the end of her speech (at 3:55:24 of the above video), Mamata said: "Tyaag ka naam hai Hindu, Imaan ka naam hai Musalmaan, pyar ka naam hai isai, sikho ka naam hai balidaan, ye hai hamara pyara Hindustaan." (Sacrifice is the synonym of Hindu; faith is the synonym of Muslims; love is the synonym of Christians; Sikh is the synonym of martyrdomthis is our beloved India).

India Today's Fact Check team found that the viral post contains an incomplete and selectively cut line from Mamata Banerjee's speech. She did say "Imaan ka naam hai Musalmaan", but in the same breath she also spoke about other religions in equally high regards.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: BJP uses wrong pictures to showcase expressway construction

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Did Rahul Gandhi attribute Mahatma Gandhi's non-violence mantra to Islam?