On August 17th 2019, a user from facebook named Monu Bhardwaj(content unavailable) shared a post. This picture looks like some performance happening somewhere. An extremely objectionable banner is being displayed in this demonstration, in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is shown as a dracula, who is eating human flesh. On the poster it is written- ‘Modi the Dracula of kashmir’.

The description of this post says:

We are ashamed at such students and University that gives such education to children. The banner of the Prime Minister of our country, Shri Narendra Modi, has been put up in the Aligarh Muslim University, which is very shameful. How fitting it is to show the Prime Minister as a dracula in an education temple? Do the children of Aligarh Muslim University, want this freedom? No matter how much we condemn this, it is less. We immediately demand stern action against those who spread this anarchy.

It has been claimed by this post that this banner, which accuses Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being a Dracula of Kashmir, is in Aligarh Muslim University. The removal of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir is linked to this banner. Every second day Aligarh Muslim University is being linked to such disputes. Let us find out the truth about the claim in this video.

See main post here –‘Monu Bhardwaj’| ARCHIVE POST

First we conducted a reverse image search of this picture. But this search results did not give us any valid evidence. After this, we used the keywords mentioned on the poster ‘Modi the dracula of Kashmir’ and searched on Facebook. We found a second picture related to this banner. You can see the Facebook post below:

ARCHIVE POST

We used the same keywords and searched on Google. As a result, we found a twitter link. Anila Qazi, a verified user, had tweeted on 16th August 2019. The tweet contains the same picture that has been used in Facebook post. You can see this tweet below.

Modi the Dracula of Kashmir#15AugustBlackDay

Free Kashmir

Today's Black Day protest in London outside Indian high Commission. pic.twitter.com/BVBd4u9zJo — Anila Butt (@AnilaButtPK) August 15, 2019

ARCHIVE TWEET

Both, the post and the tweet, have the same description, Modi the Dracula of Kashmir, #15AugustBlackDay, Free Kashmir, Today’s Black Day protest in London outside Indian high Commission. In both the places, it has been claimed that this picture is from the protest held on 15th August 2019 in front of Indian High Commission in London.

Based on this claim, we conducted a Google search using the keywords ‘Black Day protest in London outside the Indian High Commission’. As a result, we found a video on YouTube uploaded by England’s renowned news agency ‘The Sun’. This video has 1 hour and 37 minutes of live coverage of the protest held in front of the Indian High Commission in London on 15th August 2019. In this video, you can see the banner appearing in the shared picture in the above mentioned post starting from 45 minutes 10 seconds till 46 minutes 14 seconds.

Further, we searched using the keywords ‘Modi shown as dracula banner in AMU’. As a result, we found news broadcasted by Patrika on 20th August 2019. It has been said in the news that after such claims floated on social media about the objectional banner of Prime Minister Narendra Modi being in Aligarh Muslim University, the Aligarh police investigated the matter and clarified that no such banner has been put up in the University. Also, the Aligarh Police have given an explanation through social media.

Read full story here – ‘पत्रिका’ | ARCHIVE POST

Apart from this, we also came across news circulated on the ‘Times of India’ website on 21st August 2019. It is mentioned in this news that an FIR has been filed against the person who claimed that the objectional banner of Prime Minister Modi has been put up in AMU.

Read full story here – ‘Times of India’ | ARCHIVE NEWS

After this we searched for a tweet by Aligarh Police on Twitter. You can view the tweet below:

ARCHIVE TWEET

It is clear after the research that this poster declaring Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the Dracula of Kashmir is not in Aligarh Muslim University. In reality this banner was a part of a recent protest organized outside the Indian High Commission in London on 15th August 2019.

Results of investigation: From this research it is clear that the picture shared in the above post claiming that the banner describing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the Dracula of Kashmir is from Aligarh Muslim University, is absolutely false. This banner was a part of a recent protest organized outside the Indian High Commission in London on 15th August 2019.