Amid the ongoing farmers' protest near Delhi, a video of policemen removing the turban of a man has gone viral with the claim that a Muslim disguised as a Sikh has been apprehended in Haryana.

Several Facebook users posted the 13-second video on November 30 with the caption, "Lofer Nazir Mohammed an SDPI worker, dressed as a Sardarji in farmers strike in Hariyaana is arrested this morning."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is from 2011. The man is a Sikh who was apprehended while taking part in a protest by retrenched veterinary employees in Punjab's Mohali.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

Old video revived

We found through keyword search that the video was uploaded by several YouTubers in 2011. Website "sikhnet.com" had also written about the incident. All of them reported that the incident took place on March 28, 2011, near PCA Stadium in Punjab's Mohali.

We looked for related news reports and found that The Times of India and The Indian Express had covered the incident at that time. According to these reports, the incident was the fallout of a standoff between protesting rural veterinary pharmacists and Punjab police near Mohali's PCA Stadium. The protest took place on March 28, 2011 - two days before the high-voltage ICC World Cup semi-final between India and Pakistan at Mohali stadium.

According to "The Indian Express", at around 12.45 pm on that day, hundreds of retrenched veterinary pharmacists, who were already in an indefinite protest seeking restoration and regularisation of their services, began marching towards the stadium. Police tried to disperse the crowd forcefully when they tried to enter the high-security zone.

United Sikhs, a global organisation of the community, had filed a complaint against Punjab police before the Mohali judicial magistrate for removing a Sikh youth's turban. On March 31, 2011, The Times of India had reported that two gazetted officers of Punjab police - an SP and an SHO - were suspended over the incident.

Late last year, AFWA had published a fact-check article when the same video went viral falsely linking it to the anti-CAA protests.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video of police removing a man's turban has nothing to do with the ongoing farmers' protest near Delhi. The video is from 2011 and the man was not a Muslim but a Sikh.