A video of a policeman chanting ‘Jai Shree Ram’ while walking through a narrow road with a group of people is viral on social media with the claim that this is how Tripura cops are helping rioters destroy mosques and Muslims’ houses.

In the video, some men can be seen wearing saffron scarfs and waving saffron flags. Part of a Hindi slogan - “Ghar-ghar bhagwa chhayega’ can also be heard towards the end. This video is being widely shared against the backdrop of the recent attacks on a mosque and Muslim properties in Tripura.

advertisement

A Twitter user shared this video with the caption, “This is Tripura Police. Leading the rioters to burn Muslims' houses, mosques and their shops, with their slogans. #SaveTripuraMuslim #TripuraAntiMuslimsRiots.”

The Archived version of this tweet can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video has been doing the rounds since at least 2018. Hence, it is certainly not related to the recent violence in Tripura.

AFWA probe

Using keyword search, we found that a longer version of the viral video was shared on Facebook on March 26, 2018. In this version, two slogans - ‘Ghar-ghar bhagwa chha gaya, Ram raj fir aa gaya’ and ‘Ek hi nara, ek hi naam, Jai Shree Ram, Jai Shree Ram’ can be heard.

Here, the video was shared with a caption in Hindi which translates to: “This is Yogi Adityanath’s Rambhakt police. The policeman raised the slogans of Lord Ram.”

A YouTuber had also shared this video on November 25, 2018 with the caption, “In Ayodhya, police too said Jai Shree Ram.”

An officer from the Tripura police department confirmed to India Today that the video in question is not from the northeastern state.

On October 26, 2021, a mosque was vandalised and two shops were set ablaze at the Chamtilla area of North Tripura during a Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) protest procession. Following these incidents, section 144 was imposed in the area. BJP has formed a five-member probe committee from the party’s minority cell to investigate what led to the violence.

We could not independently verify the exact timing and location of the video.

Evidently, an old video is being falsely circulated as Tripura police supporting rioters to burn Muslims’ homes.