A picture of masjid is getting viral on the internet. It is claimed that the viral; masjid picture is from the Nanital. People all over the internet are sharing the image with aggression about the loudspeakers in the masjid and how it awakes the people of the valley at 4 a.m., how it is difficult for the people in the hospital to take rest and how nearly 30 years ago this masjid do not even exist.

Many Facebook users shared the image with quite similar captions like,

“This Masjid is located in Devbhoomi in Nainital…About 20-25 years ago this mosque did not exist…

This fort-palatial mosque is situated right in front of the world-famous Naini Lake and Naina Devi of centuries ago… 16 big loudspeakers installed in this mosque since 4:30 in the morning don’t believe without waking you up…as this lake is surrounded by city from all sides. Surrounded by mountains, at 4:30 in the morning, the deafening sound of these 16 loudspeakers wreaks havoc on heart patients, BP patients, and patients admitted to nearby hospitals.

The special thing is that this mosque is not on the purchased land.

The then Congress government gave hundreds of meters of prime land (precious land) to the Muslims as a gift a lot.

This mosque has been built…

This is the situation everywhere in India…

The whole of India has been filled with tombs, mazaars, pir dargah masjid, madrassas.”(Translates Hindi)

Fact Check:

Through reverse search image, we found this picture as of The Jama Masjid Nainital.

It was originally built for Muslim soldiers in the British army as one can see the symmetrical Islamic architecture, the lush decoration, and the minarets from which the call the prayer is sounded.

Jama Masjid Nainital, was built in 1882 during the British Era for Muslims around Nainital. Over the main entrance, one can see Arabic inscriptions. It was Beautifully reconstructed from 2004-to 2005.

The picture was shared by the Uttrakhand tourism official Instagram account.

Conclusion:

The Jama masjid of nanital was originally built in 1882 and not 20-25 years back.

Claim Review: jama madjid of nanital was built 25 years back.

Claimed by: social media users.

Fact chaeck: fake