The Turkish-German couple of Ugur Sahin and –zlem T¼reci came to the limelight as frontrunners in the race to invent a vaccine for coronavirus. Dr. Sahin is the CEO of German biotech firm BioNTech, which developed a Covid-19 vaccine along with its United States partner Pfizer.

Meanwhile, an old family photograph of a man, woman and four children has gone viral on social media with the claim that one of the kids the boy in yellow tshirt is Sahin. The claim further says the picture was taken when Sahin’s family newly arrived in Germany.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral picture is indeed of a Turkish immigrant family in Germany. But the boy in yellow is not Sahin; he grew up to be a mechanic.

The archived versions of similar posts are saved here, here and here.

Story behind the viral image

Using reverse search, we found the picture on several websites related to art. According to ArtReview and Art Journal Open, it was clicked by German photographer Candida Hofer, and it was part of a picture series called ‘T¼rken in Deutschland 1979’, meaning ‘Turks in Germany 1979’.

This picture is also available in the photo collection of Harvard Art Museums. But nowhere are the subjects of the photograph revealed.

Turkish fact-check website Teyit, which originally debunked the viral claim about the image, had found a tweet posted in August this year by DiasporaT¼rk — an online community dedicated to collecting and documenting stories relating to Turkish immigrants in Europe.

This handle tweeted the viral image and said it was taken in D¼sseldorf, Germany. According to “DiasporaT¼rk”, one of the grandsons of the couple in the photograph reached out to them. The family is from Aksaray, Turkey. The father came to Germany in 1965. Ten years later, he brought his wife and four children to D¼sseldorf.

Bug¼n birçok yerde fotoraftaki erkek çocuunun Prof.Dr. Uur ahin olduuyla ilgili paylamlar yapld.



Ailenin hikayesini daha ¶nce paylamtk. O çocuk b¼y¼d¼ ve torna-tesviye ustas oldu. Bu onu kimseden daha az ¶nemli yapmyor. Ailenin ansna sayg duyulmas ¼midiyle... https://t.co/o7cMqwq37Q pic.twitter.com/DB4phsLn36 — DiasporaT¼rk (@diaspora_turk) November 17, 2020

The picture was taken within a week after they moved into a new home in D¼sseldorf. As per “DiasporaT¼rk”, the boy in the yellow t-shirt became a ‘lathe-leveling master’.

As per The New York Times, Dr Sahin’s family came from Iskenderun, Turkey. Some netizens also posted the “original” family picture of Dr Sahin.

Uur anin’e ait olmayan aile fotoraf d¼nyay dolarken, gerçek fotoraf ilgi g¶rm¼yor ç¼nk¼ muhtemelen insanlarn kafasndaki içi T¼rk g¶çmen kalbna uymuyor. çi aile olunca delik çorap, krsal kyafetler vs bekliyor insanlar. ‡ok ilginç... https://t.co/tKvAhSKzqz pic.twitter.com/65XzW9JL55 — Dr. Il Acehan (@IsilAcehan) December 8, 2020



Therefore, it can be concluded that the boy in yellow t-shirt in the viral image is not Dr. Sahin, but he grew up to be a mechanic. However, both of them belonged to Turkish immigrant families in Germany.