A video of a man assaulting a woman went viral on social media. In the one-minute-long clip, the victim cried and begged for mercy as a man brutally slapped, kicked, and dragged her by her hair.

Many shared the video on Facebook with the claim that it showed a Muslim man in the US beating up his elder sister for refusing to wear burqas and hijabs.

advertisement

However, some shared the same video on Twitter with a slightly different claim: A Muslim man beat up his sister for wanting to date a non-Muslim man.

Archived versions of similar claims can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found both claims were misleading. The video was from Russia and did not have anything to do with hijabs or burqas.

AFWA Probe

We reverse searched the keyframes of the video on the Russian search engine Yandex and that led us to a post on VK, a Russian online social media platform. A page named 'REBORN' shared the video on July 6, 2021, alongside a caption in Russian that roughly translated to, "In Krasnodar, they beat and humiliated a young gipsy woman who wanted to run away to a guy in Ukraine.”

We then ran another search on Yandex and came across multiple Russian news reports about the incident. According to “life.ru” on July 5, 2021, a Romani woman from Krasnodar, a city in southern Russia, tried to elope and marry a Ukrainian man she met on the internet.

When her family became aware of her plans, they caught her on the way to Ukraine, reported a Russian website named ‘Bloknot’. The family then brought her home and brutally beat her, filming their atrocities on camera. The man seen assaulting her was reportedly a cousin.

Another website carried a link to a Telegram channel that had a short description of the Russian words exchanged in the video. It stated that the woman’s family beat her up for allegedly stealing some family money and trying to elope to Ukraine. It added that she categorically denied this charge in the video, and begged the man to stop.

While reports did not mention the woman’s name (nor the names of the family members), a website mentioned that the family belonged to the sub-ethnic group of Crimean Roma and professed Islam. We couldn’t independently verify this claim.

However, we concluded that this 2021 video was definitely not from the US, and the claims of the woman’s assault being triggered by her decision to not wear burqas or hijabs were misleading.