A video of a group of animals scurrying across a brook went viral on social media with the astonishing claim that it showed baby dinosaurs, now extinct for about 65 million years, caught on camera.

Similar claims have been archived here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim was patently false. The video showed a band of animals called coatis. The footage was reversed to create the illusion of baby dinosaurs running.

AFWA Probe

A Google search revealed that many media websites published reports on the video that had been seen by close to 14 million people on Twitter at the time of writing this. These news reports cited a tweet from the account “Buitengebieden" as the source of the viral video. When we checked, we found the tweet captioned "This took me a few seconds.."

This took me a few seconds.. pic.twitter.com/dPpTAUeIZ8 — Buitengebieden (@buitengebieden) May 4, 2022

While this tweet didn't claim the video showed dinosaurs, several others shared it claiming so.

India Today, in a report published on May 5, had revealed that the animals seen in the video were not dinosaurs but coatis or coatimundis — small mammals native to South America, Central America, Mexico, and the United States.

The story claimed that the viral video reversed to create the illusion. What appeared to be the long necks of the creatures were the upright tails of the coatis, the report said. In the original video, they were running towards the bush across the brook and not away from it as shown in the video.

When they ran with their heads down and long tails held high with a slight bend, the coatis looked similar to baby Brachiosaurus — the giant herbivorous dinosaurs that lived in the late-Jurassic era.

A story by Wion on May 8 also claimed the video to be doctored and identified the animals as a band of coatis.

While searching for the video on YouTube, we saw the “coatis in reverse" suggestion. There we found a handful of videos mentioning how they resembled dinosaurs when watched in reverse. In all the videos, the coatis kept their tails up and looked similar to the one in the viral video.

Among the results, we also found a video titled "When coatis are looking like dinosaurs" uploaded in 2019. It captured a group of the creatures on the road. When shown in reverse, they looked similar to the frames of the viral video.

We went through the replies to Buitengebieden's tweet and found that a user had posted the original version of the video as well.

If you didn't believe it before, this should clear things up. pic.twitter.com/arb7axf5Yn — ScoochTheCat (@iScoochTheCat) May 4, 2022

According to the official website of Smithsonian’s National Zoo & Conservation Biology Institute, coatis are a highly social species related to the raccoon and are known for being particularly aggressive, especially when it means access to food. They eat fruits, invertebrates, small rodents, and lizards. They forage for food on the ground and occasionally in trees.

Hence, we concluded that the video of a group of coatis running was shared in reverse to create the illusion of a group of baby dinosaurs.