Actor Neeta Mohindra, who played Sushant Singh Rajput's mother in the Dhoni biopic, recently said the late actor had developed an app which could detect Covid-19 infection just through a person's breathing.

Amid this, netizens are saying that the actor was murdered to usurp the idea of a device which can diagnose coronavirus infection using voice samples. It is also being said that actor Akshay Kumar and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's son Aaditya had launched the same device recently.

advertisement

The Facebook post in Hindi, with a collage of several pictures of Akshay and Aaditya, translates to, "So this is why Akshay Kumar ran away to London with his family. Akshay Kumar and Aaditya Thackeray have launched a machine which can detect Coved-19 just by voice samples Sushant Singh Rajput was working on this project during lockdown; he had patented it. But how did it reach these two people? Sushant had mentioned it in his diary but the pages are missing."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral claim on social media has been created by combining various unrelated elements.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. The claim is viral on Facebook and Twitter. Several YouTubers have also posted videos based on this claim.

We noticed that many users making the claim are attributing it to journalist Meena Das Narayan. She had replied to the following tweet by Aaditya Thackeray.

.@mybmc will do a pilot of AI-based COVID-19 detection test using voice samples. Of course, regular RT-PCR test will follow but the globally tested technique proves that the pandemic has helped us see things differently & spruce up use of tech in our health infrastructure. pic.twitter.com/LMFthVhXXk — Aaditya Thackeray (@AUThackeray) August 9, 2020

"Was this what #sushant was working on? Was it his patent? @narendramodi @AmitShah@Swamy39 if so how did it come into your hands? #Sushant was very excited about the patent and discussing it with several exprts on #Zoom. How did you get this? Who gave it to you!" she had questioned in her tweet, the archived version of which can be seen here .

Let us look into the elements of this claim one by one.

Which machine is being talked about?

While netizens are talking about a voice sample-based Covid-19 testing machine launched by Aaditya Thackeray, in reality, it's an app being tested by BMC under a pilot project. It is an AI-based Covid-19 detection test which uses voice samples and works on the principle that if the lungs of a person get infected with coronavirus, their voice also gets affected.

advertisement

People testing positive in this test will undergo the regular (RT-PCR) swab test to confirm if they are infected.

As per reports by Hindustan Times and Free Press Journal, BMC has signed an MoU with Israeli company Vocalis Health for starting screening of Covid-19 patients.

With the help of keyword search, we found Vocalis Health is mentioned in the website of the ministry of science and technology under a list of 'Innovative Israeli companies with solutions for Covid-19'. Here, it is written that Vocalis Health was formed due to a merger between two Israeli companies.

We found this app has nothing to do with Akshay Kumar or Sushant Singh Rajput.

Is there an Akshay Kumar link?

Akshay Kumar is presently shooting for his film 'Bell Bottom' in London.

The viral claim has some pictures of Akshay Kumar with Aaditya Thackrey. We found that three of the pictures from the collage are old and related to various martial art events. Only one is recent, but even that is not related to the voice sample-based Covid-19 testing project of BMC.

advertisement

For convenience, we have numbered the pictures.

Picture 1 is from the Kudo Tournament organised in 2017, in which Akshay Kumar, Katrina Kaif and Aaditya Thackrey were present.

Picture 2 shows Akshay Kumar, Alia Bhatt and Aaditya Thackrey at a martial arts event organised in 2016.

Picture 3 is from a May 2020 event in which Akshay Kumar had donated GOQii wrist bands to Mumbai policemen to help them keep a watch on the early signs of Covid-19. Aaditya Thackrey was also present in this event.

We found a tweet by GOQii which says it was founded by entrepreneur Vishal Gondal, and not by Sushant as is being claimed by many people.

Moreover, this event was held in May, a month before Sushant's death on June 14.

Picture 4 shows Akshay Kumar and Aaditya Thackrey at the launch of a martial arts training institute for women in Mumbai in 2014.

Was Sushant working on Covid-19 diagnosis?

The actor's relative Anuj Singh told AFWA that though he had heard that Sushant was working on some technology related to coronavirus, he doesn't have the details about it. He said, "Sushant did not share much about his future plans but kept trying new things."

advertisement

Since Sushant's death is currently under investigation by the CBI, we cannot say with complete surety about what he was working on or had patented. But as of now, there is no evidence to prove that the voice sample-based Covid-19 diagnosis app being tested by BMC was originally developed by him.

Apart from working on the corona app, Sushant had also invested in three companies. Of these, Innsaei Ventures Private Limited is a Gurugram-based start-up working on virtual reality. He had also invested in an IT firm called Vividrage Rhealtyx Pvt Ltd founded in September 2019 and a firm involved in social work called Front India For World Foundation created in January 2020.

Thus, it can be concluded that though actor Sushant Singh Rajput was also working on a corona diagnosis app, the voice sample-based Covid-19 detection app which is being tested by BMC was developed by Israeli company Vocalis Health.