Following countrywide (sometimes violent) protests against controversial remarks on the Prophet Muhammad, social media has been abuzz with videos and photos supposedly capturing said violence. Different people have accused Hindus, Muslims, and even the police of instigating violence.

Among such media is the footage of a group, some donning saffron, pelting stones from the roof of a house. "People of Godsewadi rotten society are clearly visible pelting stones from the top of the roof at a peaceful protest. These are the people who start the real stone-pelting, and if Muslims defend themselves, the media and intelligentsia start talking of violence," a tweet that shared the video read.

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim was misleading. The video was not shot during the protests over the comments made by now-suspended BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma. It showed the clashes that broke out in Madhya Pradesh's Khargone in April 2022 during Ram Navami celebrations.

AFWA Probe

While the post didn't mention where the video was from, a stamp at the bottom that read, “OPPO Reno6 5G 2022.04.10 18:13.” This is a standard feature in Oppo smartphones that can be optionally activated.

If needed, the Oppo logo can be watermarked to media alongside the date and time of the shot, the phone’s model, or both. Thus, we could surmise that this video was possibly from the evening of April 10, 2022 — long before Sharma even made the offending comments.

Reverse-searching keyframes of the video led us to a tweet from April 14. User Samiullah Khan claimed the video was from Madhya Pradesh's Khargone, and that it showed “Hindutva Extremists” pelting stones at Muslims in the Taudi Mohalla near Mata Chowk. This further confirmed that the video was old and unrelated to the ongoing protests.

What happened in Khargone?

Per reports, 175 people were arrested and 64 FIRs were filed after violence broke out in Khargone, Madhya Pradesh during Ram Navami celebrations on April 10 — the date in the video's watermark. The curfew imposed in the area was only lifted in May, almost 24 days after the violence.

Nasir Ahmed Khan, a resident of the locality reportedly told Newschecker that his house came under attack from those seen in the video. An FIR was filed against eight people.

India Today got in touch with a local, who under the condition of anonymity confirmed that the video was shot in the Taudi Mohalla neighbourhood of Mata Chowki in MP during the April unrest.

advertisement

''The group pelted stones from the roof. A police complaint was filed naming around 32 people and 8 were arrested. However, no such incident of violence has taken place in the area recently," he said.



He shared recent photographs of the building from which the group is seen pelting stones in the video.

With his help, we were also able to geolocate the house in question.

Hence, we concluded that the viral video did not show violence during protests over Nupur Sharma's remarks. It’s from MP’s Khargone, where communal violence broke out earlier this year during Ram Navami.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena in New Delhi)