A video, claiming to be of the Mumbai police arresting a group of men in broad daylight, is viral on social media. It is being said that the police are arresting some terrorists hidden in a building in the Pydhonie area of South Mumbai. The one-minute 27-seconds video starts with three police jeeps arriving in front of an old building.

advertisement

In the video, a number of policemen can be seen getting out of their jeeps and then forcibly dragging out a group of men from inside the building. The jeeps are then driven away from the scene.

The caption in Hindi to one such video translates as “Terrorists caught from South Mumbai's Pydhonie area".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. The viral video is from a web series shoot that took place on February 14 in the Pydhonie area of South Mumbai.

Similar claims are also shared on YouTube.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

We contacted the Pydhonie police station for better clarity on the matter. Subhash Dudhgaonkar, senior inspector of Pydhonie police station confirmed to us that the video in question is from a web series shoot that happened in Pydhonie on February 14, 2021, and not a real police operation. He also asserted that recently, there was no such terrorist arrest made in the area.

AFWA also spoke to Sunil Padnekar, another police officer from Pydhonie police station. “Mumbai police had already granted permission to the shoot that happened on February 14. We were all well aware of it and it happened in a building close to the police station on the Ibrahim Rahmatullah road. However, soon after the Sunday's shoot, the video in question started circulating with misleading claims,” Padnekar said.

The DCP Headquarters of Mumbai Police also confirmed to AFWA that no such terrorist arrest took place in Mumbai city recently.

Also, a group of terrorists getting arrested in Mumbai city would have made the news. However, we couldn’t find any credible media reports on any such an incident.

We also found some social media pages claiming the video in question is from a web-series shoot that took place in Pydhonie.

advertisement

AFWA also contacted the owner of Masti Kids, the owner of one of the shops on the ground floor of the building seen in the video.

Asif Khan, the owner of the store said, “The video in question is from Sunday, February 14. It was a film or web-series shoot, we are not sure exactly what. But we were all already informed about the shoot and it happened between 7:00 am and 12:00 noon. I usually open my shop at 10:30 in the morning but that day due to the shoot I opened it in the afternoon.”

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is from a web series shoot that happened in the Pydhonie area of South Mumbai and not of Mumbai police arresting terrorists.