A video of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has gone viral where he’s seen asking a person to move away during a public event. Several social media users have claimed that this was deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya who was “insulted” by Yogi.

The 13-second clip was shot from behind and one cannot clearly see the face of the man who was chided by Yogi.

advertisement

The Hindi caption along with the video translates to, “Poor BJP leader, anyone and everyone insults him. Look at the condition of UP’s deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the man who was rebuked by Yogi was not Maurya but a local BJP leader named Vibhrat Chand Kaushik. Maurya was not even present at the event.

The viral posts are saved here and here.

AFWA probe

Using InVID and reverse image search, we found a tweet posted by a local journalist from Gorakhpur on November 30. Posting the video in question, he wrote it was Vibhrat Chand Kaushik who tried to get close to Yogi and received a scolding.

AFWA contacted Pandey, who confirmed that the incident took place on November 28 at an event in Bansgaon, Gorakhpur. The video was shot by a party worker who was present on stage.

To further confirm the incident, AFWA contacted Kaushik, who admitted it was him in the video. He called it a minor incident which has been hyped up on social media.

“I tried suggesting Yogi ji that a stadium could be built there. He asked me to

talk later. He has the right to say that as he is my senior and my guru. There was nothing wrong in his behaviour”, Kaushik said and claimed that after the event, Yogi came up to him and asked him about his suggestion on the stadium.

Kaushik is the vice-president of UP Rajya Yuva Kalyan Parishad.

We also found some local news reports confirming the incident.

Yogi went to Bansgaon on November 28 to attend an event called “Sansad Khel Mahotsav”. As per news reports, local MP Kamlesh Paswan was present at the event along with the CM. Nowhere is it mentioned that deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya was also present.

Hence, it is confirmed that the man seen in the viral video being scolded by Yogi was not Keshav Prasad Maurya but another BJP leader named Vibhrat Chand Kaushik. Maurya was not even present at the function.