A video is being shared on social media where Dinesh Lal Yadav ‘Nirahua’ can be seen campaigning for the Samajwadi Party. The video is being shared in context with the recent by-polls for Rampur and Azamgarh Lok Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh. Dinesh Lal Yadav ‘Nirahua’ was BJP’s candidate for Azamgarh seat by-polls.

The caption in the post claims that Nirahua was campaigning for Samajwadi Party recently.

The caption in Hindi read: “आदरणीय धर्मेंद्र यादव जी के सम्मान में निरहुआ और अमरपाली दुबे ने आजमगढ़ में साइकिल पर वोट देने की जनता से अपील करते हुए कहा की साइकिल का बटन दबाइए और धर्मेंद्र जी को विजई बनाइए। अखिलेश यादव जिंदाबाद धर्मेंद्र यादव जिंदाबाद धर्मेंद्र सोलंकी जिंदाबाद”

(English Translation: In the honor of respected Dharmendra Yadav ji, Nirhua and Amarpali Dubey appealed to the people to vote on cycles in Azamgarh and make Dharmendra ji victorious. Akhilesh Yadav Zindabad Dharmendra Yadav Zindabad Dharmendra Solanki Zindabad)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the post and found the video to be old.

We ran a keyword search and found a similar video of ‘Nirahua’ campaigning. The video was uploaded on YouTube in November 2017. As per the title, the video was taken during a road show in Saidpur, Uttar Pradesh.

On searching further, we found the same viral video on YouTube that was uploaded on November 26, 2017. The title read, “Dinesh Lal Yadav and Amrapali ji SP campaign in Saidpur.”

This proves that the video in circulation is from 2017.

Moreover, we also found that Dinesh Lal Yadav ‘Nirahua’ joined the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, he contested against Akhilesh Yadav in Azamgarh and lost.

On June 26, 2022, BJP candidate Dinesh Lal Yadav ‘Nirahua’ won the Lok Sabha by-election from Azamgarh. He defeated Dharmendra Yadav of SP by over 8000 votes. The by-polls were necessitated due to Akhilesh Yadav resigning from the seat after was elected to the Assembly during the Uttar Pradesh assembly election in 2022.

Hence, from the above information, it is clear that the video is old and is being shared with misleading claims.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news