With novel coronavirus spreading like wildfire across the globe, social media is rife with world leaders falling sick due to the deadly disease.

But did United States President Donald Trump too fall sick due to the novel coronavirus and is being treated at a hospital for the same?

Facebook user 'DrAbhishek Choudhary' uploaded a video and wrote, "Received one minute ago: Trump just fainted! News flash! US President Donald Trump is being treated for coronavirus in hospital, and Vice-President Mike Pence is taking over. There was panic across the country. Many Americans with Chinese visas are scrambling to get on flights to China at 10 times the usual rate. No official confirmation yet."

advertisement

The 15-second video shows Trump holding his right hand around his head when two people escort him out of the stage. On a blue background is written 'Trump-Pence', while the same is seen on the podium before Trump as well. The archived version of the post can be seen here. This video with the same claim has been uploaded on YouTube as well as Twitter.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the video has nothing to do with the novel coronavirus. The video is three years old. In fact, Trump was tested for Covid-19 last week and tested negative.

With the help of reverse search, we found a YouTube link and a news report which stated that the video is from November 6, 2016. At that time, Trump was holding his election campaign at Nevada when a commotion erupted about a gunman. Trump was escorted out of the stage but later returned after no gun was found on the suspected person. Trump became President of the USA in January, 2017.

Trump had taken tests for the novel coronavirus recently even though he had shown no symptoms. The test results showed he was fine and need not worry about the novel coronavirus. According to reports Trump had met a Brazilian press secretary in Florida on the first week of March.

The press secretary had later tested positive for the novel coronavirus. In fact, on March 18, Trump announced a slew of measures to fight the "invisible enemy".