Picture of a young girl pulling a hand rickshaw with a frail old man sitting in the back, while some schoolboys look on, is being widely shared on the social media. But it is the message along with the picture which is really moving. It is being claimed that the girl is "an IAS topper introducing her father to people. A grand salute to her and her father".

advertisement

On Facebook, most of the people are sharing the post that was put up by a Facebook page "Silchar Diary". The post has already been shared more than 32,000 times from this page alone at the time of filing this story.

Congress leader and former union minister @ShashiTharoor is among the thousands of people who have shared it on twitter.

India Today Fact Check Team found that the girl is neither an IAS topper nor her father a rickshaw puller. The story spun around the picture doing round on the social media is totally false.

A Google reverse search about the picture throws up many results where this picture has been used. Scanning through these results, we could reach the Instagram profile of the young girl who figures in the picture. Her name is Shramona Poddar and her Instagram handle is mishti.and.meat.

We reached out to Shramona Poddar and were able to speak to her over the phone. Shramona, who is currently travelling to Mumbai, told us that she is a travel blogger who also works on promotional assignments for some brands. She told us that she is a resident of Chandannagar near Kolkata and her father is a doctor. She certainly is not an IAS topper.

Instagram pic of Shramona.

Shramona told that this picture was shot in April this year at Shobabazar in North Kolkata and was clicked by her friend Shramona told that this picture was shot in April this year at Shobabazar in North Kolkata and was clicked by her friend Bhaskar Chal , who is a freelance photographer. During that time, she was doing a campaign for the brand Wildcraft for Instagram and was shooting in different parts of Kolkata. A Wildcraft bag can be seen strapped over her shoulders.

Sharing with us the real story behind the picture, she said that she has grown up in Kolkata and the sight of a man pulling hand rickshaw with someone sitting behind, always evoked many emotions inside her. How would it feel? How difficult it must be? "That particular day, I decided to try it myself and requested the rickshaw puller uncle to sit behind as a rider. Pulling the hand rickshaw in the streets of Shobha Bazaar, while the onlookers saw me with awe, I quickly realised what a pain it is. My photographer friend Bhaskar clicked the picture while we were shooting in different parts of the story for a campaign for Wildcraft. Later on, I shared the whole story on Instagram," told Shramona. The story about the picture and that she shared can be read here.



Shramona is aware that her picture is being shared widely with a totally fictitious story. "It feels bad because it is also dragging my parents into it. They have even received calls regarding this false story," she rued.