The farmers' protest on October 2 turned violent as thousands of farmers clashed with police on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh (UP) border.

The protesters' pictures went viral on social media showing violence. One such picture that went viral as the face of the farmers' protest was of an elderly dhoti-clad man taking on eight policemen with his lathi (stick). Many people took to social media, posting how the picture shows police brutality against an elderly man.

advertisement

Shamina Shafiq, the former member of the National Commission for Women, shared the picture on Twitter and said it was the "most disturbing image of the day". She slammed the UP police, calling them "cowards".

Here's what she tweeted:

One of the most disturbing image on the day when the whole world is celebrating #MahatmaGandhi jis 150 birthday, we see these coward cops of #UttarPradeshPolice attacking a helpless #Farmer pic.twitter.com/lG02qUcV3u shamina shafiq (@shaminaaaa) October 2, 2018

Congress president Rahul Gandhi also tweeted that the Gandhi Jayanti celebrations on the world non-violence day started with brutal violence against the farmers marching peacefully towards Delhi. He said that now farmers can't even march towards the capital to voice their problems.

Not only social media, several newspapers also carried the picture as the face of farmers' protests.

However, India Today's fact check team found out that this widely shared picture does not reflect the absolute truth.

Source: PTI

A closer look at the picture shows that the elderly man is not alone. One can spot a part of somebody's hand on the left side of the picture.

The picture was originally taken by a photographer of the news agency - PTI. A look at the photo gallery shows that there were many other photographs showing different angles of the same incident. The other pictures show that there were other protesters also standing behind the elderly man.

Source: PTI

However, despite so many other pictures, one particular picture showing the elderly man alone against the police went viral.

The fact check team at India Today spoke with the man behind these pictures - PTI photographer, Ravi Chaudhary.

According to Chaudhary, this particular clash happened around noon on the Delhi-UP border near the Ghazipur flyover. The top-angle shots were taken from the flyover when the protesting farmers were trying to breach the police barricades to continue their march towards Delhi.

"This elderly man was not alone, he was part of a group of farmers," Chaudhary said.

advertisement

When asked why PTI provided this picture showing only one man against the police, Chaudhary replied,"There were several variations of the same incident but this one looked powerful, so we used this in the first version. Later, we showed the other protesters as well in the picture."

Many people who took to social media like Shamina Shafiq were misled by the picture and took these policemen to be from the UP police force. However, according to an eyewitness and photographer Ravi Chaudhary, they were Delhi police personnel.

According to the fact check team at India Today, the picture that went viral depicting police brutality on the elderly farmer does not reflect the complete truth.

Also Read | Midnight ending in Delhi for farmers' march after standoff with police

WATCH | Police use water cannons as farmers try to enter Delhi