Spread the truth:

Prakash Raaj tweeted

“Yogi ji orders people of Karnataka “don’t celebrate Tipu Sultan in the land of hanuman” dear sir.. what’s your agenda again… # justasking”. In the tweet he included 3 photos showing Politician Yedurappa and others wearing a Tipu Sultan kind turban.

Yogi ji orders people of Karnataka “don’t celebrate tippu sultan in the land of hanuman” dear sir.. what’s your agenda again…#justasking pic.twitter.com/wwfErkW09e — Prakash Raj (@prakashraaj) December 22, 2017

His question was directed to UP CM Yogi Adityanath. These photos along with the question meant, if Yogi ji said not to celebrate Tippu Sultan Jayanti then why is BJP minister Yedurappa celebrating it.

TRUTH –

All these 3 photos are years old, much before Yogi became CM or even BJP came to power, Modi ji became PM and not related to Tippu Sultna Jayanti.

Celebrating Tipu Sultan Jayanti started in Karnataka from Nov 30th 2015 while all these photos were taken much before.

BS Yedurappa in Green Turban – Year 2013 Source – prokerala.com 30th March 2013

“BS Yeddyurappa, KJP State President being felicitated by Syed Nizam Ali, KJP Leader and others, during the Karnataka Janatha Paksha Minority Convention at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru on March 30, 2013.”

Another source – Karnataka Muslims –

“Bangalore. Apr. 1, 2013. While the Congress party in the state had organized huge minority convention to woo the minorities; and Mr. H D Kumarswamy, president, JD(S), knocked the door of every possible Dargah he could; Mr. B S Yeddyurappa, the supremo of Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP), chose not to miss the opportunity and thus tossed its minority card at Karnataka Janata Paksha Minority Convention, organized here on March. 30, 2013.”

Second one where three men are wearing the turban is from Year 2012, Source – Official website of Karnataka’s Department of information and Public relations 16th Aug 2012

“CM Attended the Iftar party which was organised by BJP Minority Morcha”

And the third one is oldest of them all, seven year old rather. Year 2010 Source Karnataka Muslims 3rd Sep 2010

Bangalore:

Chief Minister Yeddyurappa attended the iftar party hosted by his sparty’s minorities wing on Thursday evening at Quddus Sahib Idgah maidan.

Speaking on the occasion he said that his government will continue with a non- discriminatory approach towards minorities. And his government has commenced several welfare measures for Muslims. Anwar Sharief Chairman of Jumma Masjid Trust appealed the Chief Minister to help for the proposed construction of Karnataka Heritage and Islamic Development Centre at Quddus Sahib Idgah maidan.

Related