Since lawyer Rajeev Dhavan appeared in the headlines for tearing the Ayodhya map in Supreme Court, it has created a buzz on social media as well. Dhavan has been representing the Muslim side in the Ayodhya land dispute case.

During an argument on October 16, he tore the map presented by Hindu Mahasabha to show the location where Lord Ram was born on the disputed land. Following this, many social media users shared a mobile number and claimed that it belonged to Dhavan.

advertisement

Facebook user -- Rakeshranjeet Singh -- wrote a sarcastic post in Hindi on October 17, which when translated, says, "Some indecent peopel are calling up Rajeev Dhavan on this number 9910430414 and abusing him. They are sharing this number. This is so wrong."





Many Facebook users have commented below the original post, mostly abusing Dhavan. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the mobile number mentioned in the viral post does not belong to Dhavan. It belongs to a person working in his office.

AFWA PROBE

The viral post has been shared by many Facebook users with the same claim, following which AFWA called up the mobile number.

Truecaller showed that the number belonged to one Phool Singh, below which appeared the name 'Anand Rajeev Dhawan'.

We found the number switched off for quite some time. But we finally got through and the person at the other end identified himself as Phool Singh Chauhan.

"I have been upset for the last three days. I don't know why people are calling and abusing me. They are threatening to kill or maim me. For two days, I had kept my phone switched off. I have not been able to speak to my family as well," Chauhan said.

Chauhan told AFWA that he works in Dhavan's office. "I make tea and serve water to people in the office. I don't know why people are calling me."

AFWA spoke to Dhavan himself on a number different from the one that is going viral. The lawyer said there were protests outside his office and residence as well and Chauhan has received hundreds of calls threatening him and his family.

"If someone wants to protest, then they should do it. Everyone has a right to protest in this country. But no one has a right to become violent and threaten my staff," Dhavan said.

CONCLUSION

The mobile number that has been going viral does not belong to senior Supreme Court advocate Rajeev Dhavan. It belongs to a person who is merely an employee in his office.