In light of the murder of a Hindu tailor in Udaipur, a video through a post is being widely shared on social media claiming that the brawl was a reaction by Hindus in Udaipur. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video showing reaction of Hindus against the beheading incident in Udaipur. Fact: The video is from a fight in Rishikesh, Uttarakhand. The fight broke out in Rishikesh area between local rafters and some other people who came to park their car. The Pauri Garhwal Police said that action was taken against the people involved in the incident. A Hindu tailor named Kanhaiyalal was brutally murdered in Udaipur by two Muslim men. Protests against the murder continued in parts of Rajasthan. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

When reverse image search is done on the screenshots of the video, a video with similar visuals was found in a tweet. According to the tweet, the visuals in the video were from Laxman Jhula Bazaar, Rishikesh in Uttarakhand, where there was a brawl among people visiting the area. Uttarakhand Police had replied to tweet, requesting the Pauri Garhwal Police to take appropriate action. The Pauri Garhwal Police said that action was taken against the people involved in the incident. The fight broke out in Rishikesh area between local rafters and some people who came to park their car. Raft paddles can also be seen in the viral video.

टैक्सी स्टैंड लक्ष्मण झूला के पास गाड़ी खड़ी करने को लेकर स्थानीय राफ्ट चलाने वाले तथा शामली से घूमने आए कुछ लड़कों के बीच मारपीट तथा कहासुनी हो गई थी किसी भी पक्ष द्वारा तहरीर नही दी गयी। पुलिस द्वारा 04 व्यक्तियों थाने लाकर 81 पुलिस एक्ट के अंतर्गत चालान की कार्रवाई की गईः- — Pauri Garhwal Police Uttarakhand (@GarhwalPolice) June 28, 2022

A Hindu tailor named Kanhaiyalal was brutally murdered in Udaipur by Muslim men as he posted on social media, supporting Nupur Sharma. Protests against the murder continued in parts of Rajasthan. However, we could not find any such videos of fighting by Hindus in Udaipur recently.

To sum it up, video from a local fight in Uttarakhand is shared as Hindus reaction to the Udaipur murder.