On June 8, New Zealand declared itself coronavirus-free after the last patient was declared recovered. Now, a video has gone viral on social media showing a group of health workers walking out of a corridor and removing their surgical caps in joy.

At the end of the 46-second video, two of the health workers can be seen closing the door of the corridor, while the others clap. It is being claimed that this is the video of the corona ward being shut after the last patient recovered in New Zealand.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video is not from New Zealand but from a hospital in Italy’s Matera city.

Among others, Facebook user “Harsh Desai” posted the video which has been shared over 3,000 times till the filing of this story. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

A closer look at the video reveals a “visititaly” logo on the top right corner of the video. Through this, we found a Facebook page named “Visit Italy”.

“Visit Italy” had uploaded the same video on June 8 with the caption, “Matera’s hospital closes last coronavirus ward.” Matera is a city in the region of Basilicata in southern Italy.

Using related keywords and reverse search, we found the same video on multiple Facebook pages. The Facebook page of an Italian news website “TRM network” had also posted the video and said the Covid-19 ward in Matera’s “Madonna delle Grazie” hospital has been closed.

Italian Newspaper “La Gazzetta del Mezzogiorno” also published an article on the video showing this symbolic gesture by the medical staff after the corona ward in “Madonna delle Grazie” hospital was closed.

Facebook page “MateraNews” also uploaded the video on June 5 with the same information.

All the above evidences prove that the video is from Italy and not New Zealand.

One of the worst affected countries due to coronavirus, Italy has been flattening the curve lately, and growth of cases has slowed down. According to “Worldometer”, Italy reported more than 2.36 lakh cases and over 34,000 deaths till June 13 evening.

New Zealand has declared itself coronavirus-free and it does not have a single active case as of now. The country reported a little over 1,500 cases and 22 deaths. All the lockdown restrictions have been lifted, except those related to border closure.