The death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput has left his fans in shock. The film fraternity, politicians and sportsmen have mourned the demise of the promising and versatile young actor.

Meanwhile, a condolence tweet by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is going viral on social media where he purportedly referred to Rajput as a cricketer and not an actor.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Rahul Gandhi’s tweet has been morphed. In his original tweet, the Congress leader has referred to Rajput as an actor and not a cricketer.

Among others, Twitter user “PIYUSH RANJAN ADVOCATE” shared the screenshot of the tweet from Rahul Gandhi’s official Twitter handle that says, “I am sorry to hear about the passing of #SushantSinghRajput. A young & talented Cricketer gone too soon. My condolences to his family, friends & fans across the world.” The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

To verify the claim, we checked Gandhi’s Twitter handle and found the original tweet where he had referred to Rajput as an “actor” and not a “cricketer”.

I am sorry to hear about the passing of #SushantSinghRajput. A young & talented actor, gone too soon. My condolences to his family, friends & fans across the world.— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) June 14, 2020

We ran a search for any archived version of the tweet but did not find any. Also, the time stamps on the viral and original tweets are the same, i.e. 7.31 pm on June 14, 2020. Even if Gandhi had written “cricketer” and re-posted his tweet after deleting the earlier one, there would have been a difference of at least a minute.

India Today had also reported about Gandhi expressing grief on Rajput’s death. The actor was found hanging at his residence in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14.

This is not the first time that a fake tweet purportedly made by Gandhi went viral. A few days back, a screenshot of a tweet from his official handle went viral that said, “Schools and colleges should reopen from 1st June on odd/even basis. Odd days teachers will come and even days, students will come.”

It was found that the Congress leader never made that tweet. Many fact-checkers had clarified that the tweet was fake. So is the viral tweet where Gandhi is seen referring to Rajput as a cricketer and not an actor.