West Bengal reported a little over 84 per cent turnout in the first phase of assembly elections on March 27.

Soon after, a screenshot, purportedly of an exit poll survey of Bengal’s Phase 1 elections conducted by “ABP News”, is circulating on social media. According to the screenshot, of the 30 assembly seats where voters have already exercised their franchise, Trinamool will win 23-26 seats, BJP 1-3 seats, and Left-Congress alliance 0-1 seat.

advertisement

One such Facebook post along with the screenshot says, “According to ABP News, in the first phase of Bengal Polls All India Trinamool Congress to get 23-26 seats out of 30. We can see a clear picture that Mamata Banerjee will take oath as C.M of W.B for the third time on 2nd May. #TMCSweepsPhase1 #BengalRejectsBJP”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the screenshot is morphed. ABP News has confirmed the same, and also according to Election Commission rules, airing exit poll results is not allowed till polling is over.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

AFWA probe

Bengal is witnessing eight-phase elections between March 27 and April 29. Counting is scheduled on May 2, along with the three other states and one Union territory going to polls Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry.

According to a press note released by EC on March 26, conducting exit poll and publishing or publicising its result are prohibited between 7 am on March 27 and 7.30 pm on April 29 for the ongoing elections and by-elections.

Therefore, it is highly unlikely for ABP News to publish exit poll results of the Phase 1 elections in Bengal. We did not find ABP News or any credible media house publishing the exit poll results for Bengal.

Speaking to AFWA, Sanjay Bragta, input head at ABP News, confirmed that the news organisation has not aired exit poll surveys as it violates EC guidelines. “The screenshot is fake. We can’t air exit poll surveys in the middle of elections as per guidelines. The exit poll is aired on the last day after polling is over,” he said.

ABP News has clarified on its official Twitter and Facebook pages that the screenshot is fake.

Hence, it is clear that the viral screenshot is fake and ABP News has not published any exit poll result on the Phase 1 elections in Bengal.

READ | Fact Check: This is not Tamil Nadu welcoming Rahul Gandhi ahead of assembly polls

READ | Fact Check: This video of BJP workers attacking a house is not from Bengal