The video shows an incident in Tamil Nadu where students of two different colleges pelting stones at each other.

Violence broke out in different parts of India during the Ram Navami and Hanuman Jayanti celebrations, social media users shared several images and videos of this violence on social media.

Amidst this, a video of a few boys pelting stones at a train that is stationary at first and then starts moving is widely circulating on social media. Users claim that this video shows a group of Muslims pelting stones at a train after its horn interrupted their Namaaz.

The caption of the post states, “Hindus had a sword in their hands in the procession, that’s why stones were thrown, now tell me what is wrong with the people sitting in the train who are throwing stones at them. Maybe they were having problems reading Namaaz due to the train horn, that’s why they threw stones.”

(Hindi: शोभायात्रा में हिंदुओ के हाथ में तलवार थी इसीलिए पत्थर फेंके गए अब जरा बताओ ट्रेन में बैठे व्यक्तियो को क्या गलती है जो उनके ऊपर पत्थर फेंके जा रहे है। गांव में एक कहावत है सुवर को कितना भी साबुन शैंपू लगा के नहला दो धुला दो लेकिन रहना उसे गु में और खाना भी गु ही होता है। ट्रेन के हॉर्न से इनको दिक्कत हो रही थी नमाज पढ़ने में इसलिए पत्थर फेंक रहे है।)

Facebook Post | Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Youtube, which led us to the same video published by News TN on 12 April 2022. The caption of the video mentions “Fight between Chennai Pachaiyappa College students & Presidency college students | Perambur”

Etv Bharat reported the incident stating that students from Pachaiyappa’s College and State College, had earlier too fought on several occasions, and now have clashed near Perambur railway station. Pachaiyappa College students were on the train heading towards Arakkonam while State College students were on the Tirupati Express.

According to India Today, an ugly spat broke out between two gangs of college students at a railway station in Chennai. Students from Presidency College allegedly behaved in an unruly manner and forced passengers to complain and get the train stopped. Then they got down and began to pelt stones at the train travelling towards Arokkanam, targeting Pachaiyappa’s College students, which led the train driver to stop the train. Then, a fight broke out between both groups. The Sembiam Police initiated an investigation and based on the video, detained 15 Presidency College students for questioning. The reports did not mention about any communal angle related to it.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the video to be False. The video does not show a Muslim mob pelting stones at a train carrying Hindu passengers. The video shows an incident in Tamil Nadu where students of two different colleges pelted stones at each other.