Ever since the Trinamool Congress’s thumping victory in the recently held assembly elections in West Bengal, widespread violence has broken out in the state. There have been reports of targeted killings of political workers, loot and arson of properties, and people fleeing their homes in fear. Pictures and videos claiming to be of the violence have filled social media too.

Amid these gory tales of brutality, a disturbing video of a man being hacked to death by some people is circulating on Internet as visuals of post-poll violence in Bengal. Social media users claim this was the killing of BJP activist Uttam Ghosh, who was beaten to death by suspected TMC workers at Gangnapur in Nadia district.

advertisement

The caption of the video is a quote attributed to Ghosh’s wife. The text in Hindi translates to: TMC workers dragged my husband out of the house and told him, “Now say Jai Shri Ram. Where are your BJP supporters? Who will save you now?” Saying this, they killed my husband.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This is a 2017 video from Brazil and not related to the ongoing violence in Bengal.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID tool and Yandex search engine, we did a reverse image search of keyframes of the video and found them in some Brazilian news reports from early 2018.

According to these reports, the video is of a murder that took place on December 30, 2017, in Fortaleza, the capital of the Brazilian state of Ceara.

As per the reports published in January 2018, the video shows 17-year-old Wesley Tiago de Sausa Carvalho being beaten to death with axes, stones, and sticks, following a dispute between two rival groups. Police had arrested two people in connection with the incident.

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is from Brazil and not related to the ongoing post-poll violence in West Bengal.

READ | Fact Check: Unrelated video passed off as TMC men attacking cops in Bengal post-poll violence

READ | Fact Check: This rape and murder incident in Bengal is not a fallout of post-poll violence