Kacha Badam singer Bhuban Badyakar’s son refuted the viral claim. The man in the video is railway guard KK Murmu who works in trains operating along the states of UP and Bihar.

A video showing a railway guard passing instructions on a walkie-talkie is circulating on social media with a claim that the video shows Bhuban Badyakar singer of the song “Kacha Badam” that became a rage on social media in the recent past. Users claim that Bhuban Badyakar got a job as a ‘Railway Manager’ in the Indian Railways. We can hear the song “Kacha Badam” in the background of the video.

The caption of the video states “Kacha Badam singer got a job as the Railway manager.”

(Hindi: कच्चा बदाम सिंगर को मिली नौकरी… बना रेलवे मैनेजर)

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by carefully observing the video and found “Daily Travel Hack” written in the bottom right corner of the video. Upon searching for this account, it led us to an Instagram account with the username “dailytravelhac1” that posted this video on 18 December 2021.

The caption of the video states “When my Son was ready to go with Tejas Guard.”

This video does not have the song “Kacha Badam” in the background. We can hear a voice of a child say “Chaliye” several times and then bids goodbye to the train by saying “Tata” in the end.

We found that the name of the page owner is Dhananjay Kumar who is a travel video blogger who makes videos on Indian Railways and their employees. We contacted Dhananjay Kumar, who confirmed to us that he had shot the video on 12 October 2021 and had first posted the video on his Instagram account on 18 December. The voice of the child in this video is of his son named Daksh. He told us that he had shot this video when he visited this native town in Bihar. This is the Agartala-Anand Vihar Tejas Rajdhani Express. He also told us that the man in the video is not Bhuban Badyakar although the railway guard resembles him. Speaking about the railway guard, he told us that the name of the guard is KK Murmu who is in service for more than 10 years now. He is posted in Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction in Mughalsarai. He often travels in Bihar- Uttar Pradesh trains.

Next, Fact Crescendo spoke with Bhuban Badyakar’s son Manoj Badyakar who confirmed to us that the viral claim is False. His father did not get any job in the Indian railways. The man in the viral video is not his father Bhuban Badyakar.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video to be False. The man in the viral video is not Kacha Badam singer Bhuban Badyakar. Bhuban Badyakar did not receive any job in the Indian Railways. The man in the video is railway guard KK Murmu who travels in UP-Bihar trains.