Remember Vinay Tiwari, the IPS officer from Bihar who was sent to Mumbai to probe Sushant Singh Rajput's death and was sent into quarantine by BMC officials? Now after the probe was handed over to CBI, a viral post on social media says Tiwari has been deputed to the central agency to investigate the actor's death.

Several users on Twitter and Facebook have made this claim with the caption, "Master Stroke by Amit Shah..! Vinay Tiwari sent to CBI on deputation. Yes, that Bihar SP who was by force quarantined by Thackrey's BMC."

advertisement

Some Facebook users have also attached a web link to a news report by "KalingaTV".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the information to be false. Both the CBI and Bihar DGP have refuted the claim.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here. Multiple Facebook users have shared the same content, claiming that the Home ministry has deputed IPS Vinay Tiwari to CBI.

We found that on August 9, "KalingaTV" published a news report with the headline, "Home Ministry Deputes IPS Officer Vinay Tiwari To CBI! Likely To Probe Sushant Singh Rajput Death Case". This report cites social media rumours as the source of information.

AFWA spoke to Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, who dismissed the social media claim as "rumour" and "totally fake".

According to a report published by "The Times of India" on August 10, even Vinay Tiwari has dismissed the report as fake. "Neither have I requested for central deputation, nor has the CBI communicated anything in this regard to me," Tiwari told TOI.

As per this news report, CBI spokesperson RK Gaur from Delhi has also confirmed that no such development has taken place.

Tiwari went to Mumbai in the first week of August to investigate Sushant Singh Rajput's death following an FIR lodged by Bihar Police. However, he was put under quarantine by the BMC on the same day he arrived in Mumbai. Tiwari had returned to Patna on August 7 midnight after the BMC released him from quarantine.