Is Sonia Gandhi richer than Britain's Queen Elizabeth II? Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwini Upadhyay and several social media users have shared a news article which claims that the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) chairperson is richer than Britain's Queen Elizabeth II.

India Today Fact Check found that the claim is false. This is a six-year-old media report which was later withdrawn due to erroneous information provided in the article.

advertisement Congress's Elizabeth is richer than British Queen Elizabeth-II & Sultan of Congress is richer than Sultan of Oman.



India urgently needs a Law to seize 100 % disproportionate assets & Benami Properties with lifetime imprisonment



https://t.co/KWRhrBJoer@PMOIndia @narendramodi Ashwini Upadhyay (@AshwiniBJP) January 7, 2019

At the time of writing this report, Upadhyay's post was retweeted more than 1,500 times. Other Facebook users also shared the same article.

People sharing news article link on Facebook

These posts refer to a Times of India article published on December 2, 2013, which had attributed the source of their information to Huffington Post, an American news and opinion website.

TOI's article stated that Sonia is the 12th richest political leader in the world, though at the end of the story, it said "Huffpost report does not clearly state how it has arrived at the conclusion".

During our research, we found that the Huffington Post did publish an article titled "The Richest World Leaders Are Even Richer Than You Thought". However, we could not find Sonia's name in the list but the Editor's Note at the end of the article stated that Sonia Gandhi's name has been removed from the list. The Huffington Post regretted the fact that the listing was sourced from a third party site which cannot be verified by their own editors.

Editor's Note at the end of the article

In December 2013, India Today had reported that Huffington Post's calculation of Sonia's wealth was taken from the website Celebritynetworth.com. This website estimated Sonia's wealth to be $2 billion. However, under its "terms and conditions" the website declares "neither we nor any third parties provide any warranty or guarantee as to the accuracy, timeliness, performance, completeness or suitability of the information and materials found or offered on this website".

In the affidavit filed by Sonia during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, she declared personal assets worth Rs 10 crore and movable assets worth Rs 2.82 crore.

According to the Huffington Post, the total fortune of Elizabeth II is estimated to be around $450 million or Rs 3,100 crore (approx). This figure is much more than Sonia's declared wealth.

India Today could not find any credible news report which had compared Sonia's personal assets with that of Queen Elizabeth II.