Ever since the first private train -- Tejas Express -- started operating between Uttar Pradesh's Lucknow and Delhi, it has been talked about extensively on various social media platforms.

There exists a post related to Tejas Express which is being widely shared. The post claims that bad food is being served in Tejas which has led to people being hospitalised and some had to be kept in intensive care unit (ICU) as well.

advertisement

Facebook page 'Viral in India' uploaded a post on October 20 which read, "This is the condition of country's best train."

The post is a collage of two photos. One photo is of the Tejas train and the other one is of food that is served in trains.

"Eating food in Tejas leads to death," it's written at the top of the collage.

Below, on the collage, it's written, "24 passengers are facing bad health after eating food in Tejas. Three passengers fighting for life in ICU."

People commenting on the post are saying things like "Achhe din are here" and "corruption everywhere".

The archived version of this post can be seen here.

Few other Facebook users have uploaded the same claim while a website called DAILY BIHAR (https://dailybihar.com/tejas-exp/) carried out a news report as well.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room ( AFWA) found that an incident of this sort had happened in 2017. A few people had fallen ill but no one was admitted in ICU and no one certainly died because of it.

The AFWA ran a search on internet with keywords like 'Tejas', 'food', 'passengers', 'unwell' and a number of news reports, like that of Hindustan Times, showed up in the results.

This showed that an incident like this did happen but on October 15, 2017. Twenty-six people were admitted to a hospital in Chiplun about 250 kilometre from Mumbai in Maharashtra. Immediately, the Railways had instituted an enquiry into the matter.

The Railways enquiry had found that a group of passengers who had been carrying their own food had fallen ill. However, these along with other passengers said that there was nothing wrong with Railways food.

Moreover, two children had vomited in the air-conditioned train which led to others feeling nauseous as well. Details of this enquiry can be read in a The Hindu news report. In this case, according to reports, everyone was discharged from the hospital.

AFWA also spoke to Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) as well as Railway Board officials on this issue.

advertisement

Narendra Pipil, Joint General Manager of Western Zone of the IRCTC said, "In 2017, a case of food poisoning was reported. An enquiry was immediately instituted and all the passengers had said that they had no complaints with the food. At that time there was no one seriously ill and no one was admitted in ICU."

Shyama Prasad, ADG Public Relations, Railway Board said, "Indian Railways has three Tejas trains and in the last two days there has been no complaint of food poisoning that we have received."

Thus it is clear that news reports from 2017 have been rehashed and made viral.