An underwater volcanic eruption in the South Pacific triggered a massive tsunami in the tiny island nation of Tonga a few days back, killing three people and wreaking havoc. Scary videos and satellite images of the extent of damage have since emerged.

Amid this, a shocking video of some men and women braving tidal waves has gone viral on social media. The video shows a torrent wave engulfing the entire area as these people keep filming. Sharing the video, many netizens rebuked them for taking such a risk during the tsunami in Tonga.

advertisement

“I am not sure why are they filming themselves into a dangerous situation! I didn’t expect this! #Tsunami #TongaHunga #Tongaeruption,” says one such Twitter caption.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is not from Tonga. This tidal bore was caught on camera in Indonesia in December 2021.

AFWA PROBE

Using InVID tool and reverse image search, we found the truth behind the viral video. A longer version of the video was uploaded on December 6, 2021, by a YouTube channel called “MEMBAYANG TV”.

A man is seen speaking to the camera in Indonesian language. He then performs some boxing stunts on a tree wearing a life jacket. Three other men and women can also be seen filming near a water body when waves gush in all of a sudden sweeping the entire area. The viral part can be found from 1 minute and 53 seconds in this video.

In the comment section, one user asked about details of the video. The YouTuber replied, “This video was taken by my younger brother, the place is on the Ogis beach Indonesia, Riau, Pelalawan, Teluk Meranti.”

In The YouTube video, “#ombakbono” is used, which in Indonesian language means tidal bore. Similar videos of “Ombak Bono” or tidal bores from the area Teluk Meranti can be seen here.

In the same YouTube channel “MEMBAYANG TV”, there are other videos of the man seen in the viral clip doing stunts in front of tidal waves.

Since these videos have been available on YouTube since December last year, it can be safely said that they are not related to the tsunami that hit Tonga on January 15.