It has been more than a month that the result for West Bengal assembly elections was declared, but the political tensions between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the opposition BJP are nowhere near over.

As West Bengal is gearing up for the by-polls in some constituencies, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has filed a petition before the Calcutta High Court challenging the assembly election results for the Nandigram constituency, where she was defeated by TMC turncoat Suvendu Adhikari.

advertisement

Amid this, a Facebook user had claimed “Scared Mamata Banerjee had directed to withdraw the High Court petition challenging the assembly election results for the Nandigram constituency.”

https://www.facebook.com/ plugins/post.php?href=https% 3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com% 2Frastriya.marg%2Fposts% 2F230210875600396&show_text= true&width=500" width="500" height="474" style="border:none;overflow: hidden" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; picture-in-picture; web-share">

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Chief Minister Banerjee has not withdrawn the case.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA PROBE

While investigating the claim we first conducted a keyword search on the said case and found that the original petition was filed on May 21.

However, the chief minister wrote a letter to the acting chief justice of Calcutta High Court, Rajesh Brindal on June 18, urging him not to list the case before Justice Kaushik Chanda and to reassign the bench for the hearing of the petition. Banerjee had expressed apprehension of bias on the part of Justice Chandra claiming that he was “an active member of the BJP”.

On June 24, TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee had appeared before the court via teleconference. Following the hearing on the ‘reassignment of bench’, Justice Chanda, against whom the recusal petition has been filed, has reserved his order. The judge did not specify the date for pronouncement of the verdict.

We have not found any media reports or any notification on the Calcutta High Court website that states that the matter has been withdrawn.

To further confirm the claim, we got in touch with Sanjay Basu, advocate-on-record for Mamata Banerjee.

Basu told India Today, “The claim is false. We are not going to withdraw the case and would continue with this case till the final verdict is given. We are now waiting for a judicial order on our plea to reassign the bench. Following this order, the court would fix the next hearing date for the original case.”

Hence, we can conclude that this Facebook claim is misleading. Mamata Banerjee has not withdrawn the petition challenging the assembly election result of the Nandigram constituency.