After a mega roadshow in Varanasi on April 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi filed his nomination from Varanasi.

Amid this, a set of photos is doing rounds on social media, comparing the way how Rahul Gandhi filed his nomination in Amethi and how Modi did it in Varanasi.

The caption given to the post is "Naamdar vs Kaamdar", trying to show that Rahul Gandhi has no respect towards the concerned officer compared to PM Modi.

advertisement

It seems in the photo that Rahul Gandhi is sitting while handing over the nomination papers to the officer; on the other hand, Modi did the same by standing in front of the officer with his hands folded.

BJP national secretary, Sunil Deodhar is among many who shared this post.

Sunil Deodhar's post has already fetched more than 11,000 shares. Archived version can be seen here.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be misleading.

Rahul Gandhi was standing all along when the nomination papers were filed.

We found the video of Rahul Gandhi filing his nomination.

It is clearly seen that Rahul, along with his family members, standing in front of the officer's dais. Full video can be seen here.

Actually, netizens mistook Rahul as sitting because the height of the dais matched to Rahul's chest, making it appear that he is sitting.

In one of the pictures of nomination filing, BJP candidate from Amethi Smriti Irani can also be seen standing at the same place, exactly the same way Rahul Gandhi had been standing.

We also checked the clips of Rahul Gandhi's nomination filing from Wayanad. In the video, Congress chief can be seen standing out of courtesy as he handed over his nomination documents to the official.

Before this, social media users also compared Rahul Gandhi's alleged disrespect towards the officer with BJP chief Amit Shah.

See the difference in behaviour of two party presidents.

1. Officials get up and bend themselves to receive the nomination papers from Rahul Gandhi.

2. BJP president Amit Shah gets up to submit his papers while the official is sitting. pic.twitter.com/lzHyYdI88U Sushil Bhatia (@bhatiasushil) April 15, 2019

At that time also, India Today debunked this viral claim.