A provocative letter swamps the social media feeds and WhatsApp groups of Karnataka voters.

This two-page missive was purportedly sent by the Catholic Bishops' Conference of India (CBCI) to Bernard Moras, the archbishop of Bengaluru.

The content holds the potential to stir religious passions and influence voter psychology ahead of the May 12 assembly elections.

To the unsuspecting eye, the letter suggests the Catholic church and Karnataka's Congress government have secretly worked together to declare the Lingayats a separate minority religion.

advertisement

For credulous readers, it outlines the CBCI's "plot" to wean away the Lingayats from the Hindu fold and convert them gradually to Christianity.

ELECTIONS ON MY PLATE | In Mysuru, Congress vs JD(S) a bigger decider than Congress vs BJP

Dated March 23, 2018, the letter was supposedly sent from the email alias of the CBCI secretary-general, identified in the "from" line as His Eminence Oswald Cardinal Gracias.

The dispatch states that representatives of the Roman Catholic Church first met Karnataka's ruling politicians on December 21, 2013 "to press urge them to grant separate religion status to Lingayats".

"Successive meetings between representatives of Holy See and those leading Karnataka state government has been arranged to pursue them about the issue."

The letter pledges hard work "for the rich harvest of the souls in Karnataka". "For the sake of making inroads in Lingayats, we can shower lavish praise on Lingayats faith but Catholics mustn't forget that by any spiritual yardstick, Lingayats can't be at par with Catholic faith and salvation can only be achieved through Catholicism."

Right-wing sympathisers posted this emailed note on Facebook and Twitter.

What followed was a barrage of furious reactions. Most people believed it to be true.

INDIA TODAY INVESTIGATES

An attempt by the church to break up Hindus for proselytising in the future - that precisely was the central message which echoed through social media.

But when India Today's Viral Test team examined the letter closely, the truth tumbled out.

The team paid attention to every detail the letter carried.

The first thing that raised suspicions was the email alias it was sent from.

But the same from line had a glaring mismatch. The letter originated from secretarygeneral@cbci.in, with the sender identified as His Eminence Oswald Cardinal Gracias.

And there was a big hole - His Eminence Oswald Cardinal Gracias is not the CBCI's secretary-general, but its president.

There can be no reason for the head of a reputed religious organisation to use the email of another office-bearer in any official communication.

Also, such notes are usually issued on formal letterheads with signatures and sent as attachments. In this case, all of that was missing.

ANALYSIS | Why the Congress thinks it can win the Karnataka Assembly election

The Viral Test team next investigated the email's format. We reached out to the CBCI's secretary-general Theodore Mascarenhas and had him reply to our email.

advertisement

It turns out the format didn't match the date and time configuration of the letter circulating on social media.

We now focus our attention on the language.

LANGUAGE ISSUES The fake letter was loaded with typographical and syntax errors, something not expected from an organisation of the stature of the CBCI.

The bogus note had a misplaced apostrophe in the sign off. Officially it's written as Bishops' and not Bishop's as rendered in the fake letter.

The Viral Team observed numerous other errors in sentences: mistakes in the use of upper and lower case, the use of the words "press" and "urge" together, "rip rich harvest" instead of reap, "persue" instead of persuade. A missing "the" before the term Holy See was another aberration.

advertisement

'MISCHIEVOUS PLOY'

CBCI also issued a strongly-worded statement.

"The circulation of this letter just before the Karnataka elections is a poor mischievous ploy. We reserve the right to sue those involved in making and promoting that letter," it said.

"We request our well wishers to respond to the letter if it comes to them with this official clarification."

WATCH | India Today Poll of Polls: Can Congress hold on to Karnataka?