The Palestinian health ministry on Thursday said as many as 230 Palestinians, including 65 children, 39 women and 17 elderly, have been killed in Israeli attacks on Gaza. Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, on the other hand, has vowed to continue operations till the safety and security of his citizens are ensured.

Social media is full of heart-wrenching tales claimed to be from the bloody conflict. One such picture of an adorable little girl is being shared with the claim that she was killed in an Israeli attack on Gaza. "None of the human race will drop an explosive fire on this innocence. This beautiful child was torn in pieces today. Her beauty squeezes hearts with pain. #Gaza_Under_Attack," reads the accompanying tweet.

advertisement

Paste "pic 1"

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the girl in the viral image is from Russia and doing well. She has nothing to do with the ongoing conflict between Israel and Palestine.

Many social media users are sharing the picture with hashtags such as "#Gaza_Under_Attack", "#FreePalestine" and "#BabyKillerIsrael". A Twitter user shared the picture with the caption, "This beautiful girl died in the bombardment of the invading Israel last night."

Another user wrote, "Shame on you Child Killers". The archived version of the viral post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

While searching for the source of the picture, we came across a tweet by Emirati writer Hassan Sajwani in which he pointed out that the girl in the image is from Russia. He also shared some screenshots of an Instagram account "@__tamuna_sh__/" in which the viral picture can be seen.

Let me show you how the #MuslimBrotherhood creates fake victims to win your emotions!



This is child is not a victim of Gaza airstrike by the Israelis but she is heavily used on #GazaUnderAttack hashtag as “an innocent victim” ...she is a Russian child model ! pic.twitter.com/QpTkhpLEg1— Hassan Sajwani (@HSajwanization) May 15, 2021

We found that the Instagram account belongs to a woman named Tamuna Geru who lives in Russia. On going through the account, we found that the viral picture was shared here on December 24, 2018.

Going through the posts in this account, we got to know that the name of the girl in the viral picture is Sophie, who is Tamuna's daughter.

Captioning a picture of Sophie which appears to be from a professional photoshoot, Tamuna addressed her as a "baby model".

On May 16, 2021, Tamuna shared a selfie with Sophie and tagged the location as Moscow zoo. The viral post was shared on May 14, which makes it evident that contrary to the viral claim, Sophie is doing fine.

advertisement

Arabic fact-check website "Misbar" has also debunked the viral claim.

AFWA has been continuously debunking misleading or false social media claims surrounding the Israel-Palestine conflict.

Therefore, it is evident that though many Palestinian children have been allegedly killed in Israeli strikes, this particular picture is of a little girl from Russia and not related to the conflict.