|On 27th August 2019 a Facebook user, with the name ‘’BOLTAKICHHA” shared a video on Facebook in which a young man is being called a ‘child thief’ after being beaten up by mob. It is written in the description that today a child thief was caught in Galla Mandi Kichha and has been handed over to the police. You all must remain alert and tell everyone around you to remain alert. Thank you. This post is claims that the young man seen in the video is a child thief from old Galla Mandi area in Udham Singh Nagar district old Galla Mandi, Uttarakhand. Is this true? Let us find the truth about claim made in this post.

FacebookPost|ArchivedLink

In the context of child kidnapping and theft, many claims are currently going viral on social media. Often in cases like these people fall prey to misunderstanding’s. Many times elderly, poor and mentally challenged people are considered as child kidnappers and have been taken to the police station. We have uncovered many such false claims recently. This post has been made in continuation to these investigations.

We searched on Google using the key words “child kidnapper caught in Galla Mandi Kichha” and we found a news published by a news website ETVBharat on 27th August 2019. According to this news, on 27th August 2019, a mentally challenged youngster was beaten up by the crowd in Udham Singh Nagar district old Galla Mandi, Uttarakhand. Also in this news, a video has been posted, which is exactly similar as the video shared above.

Apart from this, we found news related to this incident in which it has been said that the two young people who had beaten up this man are in police custody. To read the entire news, please click on the link below.

From this research it is clear that the young man depicted in the post is not a child kidnapper. He is mentally unstable. This incident is from Udham Singh Nagar district old Galla Mandi, Uttarakhand and it happened on 27th August 2019. In old Galla Mandi Kichcha, some people brutally beat up one of the resident Shakir’s son Munne in Noori Mosque mistaking him to be a child kidnapper.

Result of investigation: The claim made in the above mentioned post that “the youngster seen in this video is a thief who kidnaps children from Udham Singh Nagar district old Galla Mandi, Uttarakhand” is absolutely false.