A short video clip of a man praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi is circulating on social media with the claim that he is a Pakistani journalist.

In the 56-second video, the man is heard saying, "No one in the world knew what BJP was. Someone went down to the ground and changed the scene. He has never taken rest in five years and even illness could not touch him. Modi has never had a cold or a cough. Those who dream of a country are not affected by disease or any other force. You should learn from this Indian leader."

advertisement

The caption of one such video reads, "Pakistani journalist talking about Modi."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The man seen in the video is Harshvardhan Jain, a motivational speaker from India.

Similar claims are also being shared in Kannada language. The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

One can see the social media accounts of a certain "Harshvardhan Jain" watermarked on the video in question. Taking a cue from this, we did a reverse image search of the key frames of the video with appropriate keywords and found a longer version of the same video uploaded on August 14, 2020, on the YouTube channel "Harshvardhan Jain".

According to the "about" section of the channel, Jain is a motivational speaker based in India and works in the field of training and development.

We also found the personal website and other social media handles of Jain where he has shared similar videos of motivational talks.

AFWA also reached out to Jain's office. Trilok Sharma, his personal assistant, confirmed to us that Jain is not from Pakistan and the viral video is from a talk Jain delivered for a corporate company in India.

"Harshvardhan Jain is from Jaipur district of Rajasthan. He has no relation to Pakistan. He conducts motivational speeches and leadership coaching for employees of corporate firms. The viral clip is from a training session he held for the sales team of a corporate company some time back," Sharma said.

Hence, it is clear that the man seen in the viral video praising PM Modi is a motivational speaker from India and not a Pakistani journalist.