Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been invited to attend the four-day World Cities Summit 2022 in Singapore (July 31-Aug 3, 2022). He complains that the Central government is delaying his request to attend the event and present Delhi model of governance to the world.

Against this backdrop, a viral post, claiming that the event is exclusive for mayors and not chief ministers, is doing the rounds on social media.

A Facebook user posted images of the attendees of the event with the caption: Kejriwal is attacking Central government for not giving him permission to attend the summit in Singapore. But the summit is of mayors, Kejriwal is a chief minister. If he thinks he is just a mayor, he should announce publicly

You can find the post here

FACT CHECK

When NewsMobile fact-checked the viral posts, it was found to be misleading.

A Google Keyword Search about the event led us to the official website of the World Cities Summit. The website states: “Join global, business and thought leaders worldwide in person as they share best practices and ideas for cities to emerge more liveable, sustainable and resilient, from prolonged and unpredictable disruptions. This year, the summit centres around the theme Liveable and Sustainable Cities: Emerging Stronger.”

Scrolling further, we found a section titled: ‘Who’s coming’. The link leads us to the list of attendees for this year’s event. At the top of the page, we can see a section to filter the list based on the categories of the invited guests. The categories are All, Mayors/City Leaders, Ministers, Moderators, and Speakers. So, it is confirmed that the event is not solely for mayors.

Searching further into the history of events, we found that in 2018, N. Chandrababu Naidu, former and then chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, too, attended the World Cities Summit in Singapore. The chief Minister’s visit was covered by many local and national media houses like The Times of India, Business Standard, Financial Express, NTV Telugu, to name a few.

Updates on the event were also published on the minister’s personal social media handles as well. A live video on Facebook, whereas a detailed case study was published on his personal LinkedIn handle.

Therefore, we can conclusively say that the viral claim about World Cities Summit — an exclusive event for mayors — is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news