A video is going massively viral on social media platforms. Users are claiming that the Modi government called a security meeting of the cabinet. Moreover, in this cabinet meeting, they decided to remove Sikhs from the high ranks of the Indian Army. In the video, the officers said that to throw out every Punjabi. Once, we will remove them everything will be better. Throw out all the generals, all the soldiers, every Punjabi from top to bottom.

In this video, we can see many big leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defense Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval.

Fact Check:

After this video went viral, we found this video to be fake at first sight. As there are many cabinet meetings of the Modi government. These meetings were related to many issues including review of Corona, security lapse of Prime Minister in Punjab, green infrastructure. Above all, no such decision to expel Punjabis from the army was taken in any of these meetings.

Still, we searched social media to verify the claims. After which we got a tweet from Delhi Police. In the Tweet, Delhi Police said that the video is fake.

A morphed video of Cabinet Committee meeting after CDS Gen Rawat's demise has been circulated with the ill-intent to create social discord in Sikh community. Case has been registered against propagators of the said video on Social media. We urge you to exercise caution.@CPDelhi pic.twitter.com/5n9hej4h6A — Delhi Police (@DelhiPolice) January 7, 2022

According to KPS Malhotra, DCP of Delhi Police Cyber Cell – “An morphed video of cabinet committee meeting after the death of CDS General Rawat was circulated to create social discord in the Sikh community. The police have registered FIR against those who circulated the video on social media. We urge you to exercise caution.”

A tweet referring to a viral video claim that in a #Cabinet Committee meeting on Security, there was a call for the removal of Sikhs from the Indian Army.#PIBFactCheck ▶️ The claim is #Fake

▶️ No such discussion/meeting has taken place pic.twitter.com/ESec0ALjr3 — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) January 7, 2022

Apart from this, this video has also been termed as fake from the official Twitter account of PIB FACT CHECK. According to PIB’s tweet- “A tweet referring to a viral video claimed that the Cabinet Committee meeting on Security had called for the removal of Sikhs from the Indian Army.” While checking its fact, PIB has called it fake.

Video check:

From this fact check, we found that this cabinet meeting took place after the death of CDS General of India Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash. When we searched “cabinet meeting on CDS Bipin Rawat’s death” on YouTube. But, we found the same video of the cabinet meeting which is being viral on social media with false claims.

The Tribune posted this video on 8 December 2021. Along with the video, they attached the caption as “CCS informs about helicopter crash leading to the death of CDS Gen Rawat: Official Source”. It is clear from this video that these officers are the CCS of the country. He did not brief the Punjabis about the army but the cabinet about the death of CDS Rawat.

Conclusion:

That is to say, This fact check proves that no such decisions were taken in the cabinet meeting. Hence, the claim is completely false and fake.