Social media is abuzz with claims that Zaira Wasim who quit acting in June citing religion is making a comeback to Bollywood. A viral picture of the Dangal girl wearing a sarong and posing with actors Farhan Akhtar and Priyanka Chopra on a beach seems to have triggered the claim.

Facebook user Akanksha Ojha posted the picture on September 9 and said sarcastically, "Zaira wasim - My Relationship with Allah is getting affected, Don't want to ruin it further so quitting Bollywood. Also Zaira Wasim - Have spent enough quality time with Allah.. Now he don't have any complaints regarding our relationship. Infact he is so proud on me for working with liberal team and Son of Senior Akhtar. The Sky is Pink and My heart is black.. I did my Film's promotion very well.."

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Twitter user Sanjay Sinhal said, "#ZairaWasim The temptation is just too strong for this kid. Bollywood is something that she could not resist. "B**** to religion" is what she must have said before joining again."

The truth

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the photo being shared widely had been clicked before her announcement to quit the film industry. In fact, she is not even attending the promotions of her upcoming movie 'The Sky is Pink' now.

The young actor, in a Facebook post on June 30 this year, had announced that she was quitting Bollywood because of her "relationship with religion".

By that time, she had wrapped up the shoot of her film 'The Sky is Pink' with Farhan Akhtar and Priyanka Chopra. Details about the film can be read in this News.18 report.

AFWA went through social media profiles of the actors seen in the viral picture. Apart from Akhtar and Chopra, the other actor in the picture with Wasim is Rohit Saraf. AFWA found a photo uploaded by him on his Instagram account on March 9 this year.

In this picture, Saraf and Wasim are wearing the same clothes as seen in the viral photo. This picture has the geo-location tag of "Havelock Island". This island is in the Andaman and Nicobar archipelago and also known as the Swaraj Island.

AFWA then searched the Internet for "The Sky is Pink Havelock Island Shoot" and found that shooting here was wrapped up by the producers Roy Kapur Films in March itself about which they had also tweeted.

There are many news articles on the Internet which hint that 'The Sky is Pink' is Wasim's last film. After her announcement to quit films, she has not even returned to promote her film which is set to release next month. AFWA has reached out to her and the story will be updated once she responds.