A video of Indian men’s cricket team captain Virat Kohli and his Afghan counterpart Mohammad Nabi has been doing the rounds on social media with match-fixing claims.

Keeping hope for the semi-finals alive, India on November 3 made a big win over Afghanistan in the T20 World Cup 2021. Afghanistan captain Mohammad Nabi, who won the toss, had decided to bowl first. India defeated Afghanistan by 66 runs.

advertisement

Soon after India’s victory, several social media handles, particularly from Pakistan, started trending conspiracy theories that alleged match-fixing between India and Afghanistan. In this context, a video from the toss session of the match started circulating with the claim that Kohli asked Nabi, who won the toss, to choose bowling. The claim also says it was on Kohli’s advice that Afghanistan decided to field first.

In the video, Nabi shakes hands with Kohli after winning the toss and we can hear either of the men say “bowl first”. Later when the commentator asks Nabi his choice, the Afghan captain says, “Yeah we will bowl first”.

The caption to one such video uploaded on Facebook reads, “Just watch the video and listen carefully kohli is saying to nabi, you are gonna ball first. fixing spotted”

In some of the viral videos circulating with the same claim, we can only hear the discussion between Nabi and the commentator, while the volume is too low at the beginning of the video.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. In the video, it is Nabi who told Kohli that the Afghan team is going to bowl first. Also, it is a common code of conduct in cricket for the toss-winning captain to tell whether their team will bat or bowl first to the opponent captain.

AFWA probe

We found a better version of the viral video on the four-hour full match uploaded on OTT streaming platform Disney+Hotstar.

Around 2:30 minutes into the video, we can see Virat Kohli tossing the coin and Nabi calling ‘head’. The umpire then says it is head and declares Afghanistan as the winner of the toss. Following this, Nabi shakes hands with Kohli. Here we can clearly hear Nabi saying “We will bowl first” to Kohli and Kohli replies: “Okay”. It is also noteworthy that Virat cannot be seen moving his lips during this time. Moreover, both umpires and a commentator are present next to the captains.

advertisement

After this, the commentator can be heard asking Nabi, “It’s head! Nabi, what are you going to do?”, and Nabi replies, “We will bowl first”.

We also checked the toss session of a few other matches in the ongoing T20 World Cup 2021 and found the captain of the team winning the toss telling their decision to the opposing captain before declaring it.

For instance, in the October 29 match held in Dubai between Afghanistan and Pakistan, at around 4:40 minutes into the match video on Hotstar, we can see Nabi - who won the toss - shaking hands with Pakistan captain Babar Azam and telling him that his team is going to bat first.

We also checked “ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2021 Playing Conditions” uploaded on the website of ICC.

Clause 13.5 of the conditions clearly states the captain of the team winning the toss shall inform his decision to the opposing captain. “As soon as the toss is completed, the captain of the side winning the toss shall decide whether to bat or to field and shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of this decision,” the clause reads.

advertisement

AFWA reached out to Premdip Chatterjee who is currently an umpire on the panel of BCCI. Speaking to us about the viral video, Chatterjee said, “There is nothing speculative about the video. Around the world, whether it is an ICC or BCCI match, the captain of the team that wins the toss shakes hands with the opposing captain and informs whether they will bat or field first. The captain will also notify the same decision to the match umpire. And this decision is irreversible.“

We also spoke to Tinu Yohannan, former Indian cricketer and current coach of the Kerala Ranji cricket team. Reiterating the words of Chatterjee, Tinu said that what is seen in the viral video is a practice often followed in cricket, where the captain who wins the toss notifies his decision to both the opposing team and the umpire. And this takes place in the presence of the umpire and the commentator, so that there is no scope for foul play, he added.

According to media reports, after social media handles from Pakistan started spreading conspiracy theories about India’s win against Afghanistan, Pakistan cricket legends Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis had rubbished the claims and asked the fans not to spread rumours.

It is hence clear that the video in question does not show Virat Kohli suggesting the Afghanistan captain to field first. In the video, Nabi, who won the toss, is notifying Viral about his decision to field first, and this is a common practice in cricket.