CCTV footage of a doctor collapsing after allegedly experiencing a heart attack was widely circulated on social media. The video showed a doctor writing something in a file at what appears to be a hospital reception desk. After some time, the doctor was seen collapsing. Hospital staff ran to assist her.

According to the social media posts, the person seen in the video was Dr. Sunitha, a cardiologist at Vinayak Hospital in Mumbai.

advertisement

A screenshot from one such post can be seen below.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Shocking suitcase murder in Uttarakhand given false communal twist on Twitter

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the viral CCTV footage was from a hospital in Bengaluru. It was also from 2017.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching the keyframes of the viral CCTV footage revealed that the same video had been shared on the internet as early as 2018. While this video was shared on more than one occasion, no actual information about the video seemed available.

However, when we looked carefully, some clues emerged.

A date stamp could be seen at the top-left corner of the video that informed us it was from November 26, 2017, a Sunday.

ALSO READ | Image of 2018 WB violence goes viral as from Birbhum

Assuming the incident took place on the mentioned date, we searched online with relevant keywords for the source of this video. We found the video uploaded to “Newsflare” on the very same date as seen in the CCTV footage. The headline read, “Doctor collapses from massive heart attack in hospital”.

Per the description under the video, it showed how Dr. Sunitha collapsed following a massive heart attack at the Vinayaka hospital in Bangalore, India. A spokesperson of the hospital, Dr. Bharath said, “We rushed her to the ICU and gave her the best possible treatment including an intracardiac injection. But she failed to respond and passed away. She was diabetic and her high sugar level [sic] was very high. But she had not disclosed her condition to the hospital.”

ALSO READ | Fact Check Video: Yogi Adityanath didn't ask people to boycott 'Pathan' To verify this, we contacted Vinayaka Hospital in Bangalore. According to the hospital's spokesperson, "This is an incident that happened at our hospital six years ago. Dr. Sunitha, a physician, was on the scene. She was diabetic.” The spokesperson added that the hospital had received several calls regarding this after the video went viral on social media.

It is thus clear that the CCTV footage was from a 2017 incident at the Vinayaka Hospital in Bangalore — not from Mumbai or from any recent time as posts online have claimed.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena)