Independence Day celebrations this year were subdued due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On social media too, netizens wished each other and hoped for unity and development of the country.

Amid this, a video of a man removing his burqa in front of policemen has gone viral on social media with the claim that he is an RSS man who was caught waving the Pakistani flag in a burqa to defame Muslims.

advertisement

Raju Upman, whose Twitter bio says he's a Congress worker, posted the video with a claim in Hindi which translates to, "This RSS man was waving a Pakistani flag wearing a burqa."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. The man in the video was caught by police while smuggling liquor from Telangana to Andhra Pradesh. He had put on a burqa to disguise himself.

The archive version of the viral tweet can be seen here. The video with the false claim is also circulating on Facebook.

AFWA investigation

With the help of InVID tool, we reverse-searched one of the keyframes of the video and found a news report by "NTV Telugu". The translation of the report says a burqa-clad man was arrested by Andhra Pradesh police for smuggling in liquor from neighbouring Telangana.

Using related keywords, we found another report by "ETV Andhra Pradesh" carrying the viral video. This report also says that police arrested this burqa-clad man along with others for smuggling illegal liquor in AP. The incident took place at Panchalingala check-post in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh.

To verify the same, we contacted the Kurnool SP Fakkeerappa Kaginelli. He confirmed that the viral claim along with the video is false. He said the case was related to smuggling NDPL (non-duty paid liquor) from Telangana to AP. The man had disguised himself as a woman to escape the police check-post. The incident took place on August 7, 2020, and the accused was arrested.

After speaking to AFWA, Kaginelli clarified about the misleading post on Twitter.

Facts#

The burqa clad man in this video was found carrying liquor bottles

illegally across state from Telangana to Kurnool, Andhrapradesh. Caught by Excise police, was reported on 7-8-2020 in Kurnool Taluka Police station.https://t.co/GDdPPW7wK5

Stop spreading misinformntion — Dr.Fakkeerappa Kaginelli IPS (@SP_Kurnool) August 16, 2020

advertisement

ASP (Special Enforcement Bureau) of Kurnool, Gowthami Sali, provided more details. She said prices of liquor in AP are much higher than in Telangana. So people in bordering areas buy cheap liquor from Telangana and sell it in AP in comparatively lower prices.

Gowthami told AFWA that the burqa-clad man seen in the video is Md Aarif who

was caught along with his partner Satish Goud while they were bringing in liquor on a bike from Telangana to AP. She said Aarif disguised himself as a woman, presuming that police won't stop them at the check-post. Gowthami also sent us a copy of the FIR filed in this case.

Over the last few months, Andhra Pradesh has cracked down on illegal liquor trade. The YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government has also revised liquor prices multiple times and permits to liquor stores so as to discourage people from drinking. In fact, the state is moving towards total prohibition.

Recently, three dozen people had died in different parts of the state after drinking sanitisers to quench their thirst for alcohol.

But it is clear that the claim along with the viral video is misleading. The burqa-clad man was not an RSS worker held for waving a Pakistani flag, but for smuggling liquor in AP.