Several farmers have lost their lives in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi during the ongoing protests against three contentious farm laws introduced by the Centre. While most have died due to accidents or natural causes, some have also died by suicide in solidarity with the agitating farmers.

Amid this, a shocking video has gone viral on social media showing a man collapsing on a road after which some nearby people came to rescue him. It is being claimed that the video is of a farmer who died after collapsing at Singhu Border during the ongoing protests.

advertisement

The caption in Hindi translates to, “Farmer at Singhu Border dies live on camera. Those who only see pizza and biryani, jeans and BMW in farmers’ protests and think they are terrorists should also have a look.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be untrue. The man seen in the video suffered a cardiac arrest at Singhu Border on January 3, but he is stable now.

Some verified Twitter handles have also posted the video. The archive of the viral post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

We found that a journalist from Punjab named Gagandeep Singh had posted a video on Twitter in which a man, identifying himself as orthopaedist Lovepreet Singh Pabla, is seen clarifying the incident. Pabla says that the man who collapsed and whose video is going viral with the claim that he passed away is not dead.

This morning, the news of the death of a farmer due to a fall has gone viral. Be sure to listen to this video. https://t.co/BiqrusJKDI pic.twitter.com/2DBm6rbesA — Gagandeep Singh (@Gagan4344) January 3, 2021

We found Dr Pabla’s contact number on the Internet and reached out to him. Pabla said the farmer seen in the viral video collapsed in front of him at Singhu Border on January 3, and reiterated that he is not dead. Pabla is an orthopaedist at Waves Hospital in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district.

“Our team, which visits the borders of Delhi every weekend to provide medical assistance to the farmers, checked the old man and found his blood pressure low,” Pabla said.

The team diagnosed him after which he regained consciousness and returned to Amritsar for further treatment. Pabla told AFWA that the man’s name is Iqbal Singh and he had come to Singhu Border along with his relatives from Amritsar to participate in the protest.

Pabla also posted the clarification video about the rumour on Facebook.

With Dr Pabla’s help, AFWA contacted Iqbal Singh’s brother Jasbir Singh and nephew Amanbir Siali. Both assisted Iqbal Singh at the hospital in Amritsar and told us that he had suffered a severe heart attack, but is now stable and out of danger. Iqbal Singh is admitted at Randhawa Hospital in Amritsar.

advertisement

As per Jasbir Singh, 74-year-old Iqbal Singh retired from the post of sub-divisional officer (SDO) at the Public Works Department in Uttar Pradesh. He doesn’t receive government pension due to some legal issues, the reason why he is stressed out and has medical problems.

Amanbir told AFWA that Iqbal Singh went to Singhu Border with him to protest against the farm laws as they are also farmers. Apart from this, journalist Gagandeep Singh also tweeted a photo of Iqbal Singh after he regained consciousness at Singhu Border.

Hence, it can be concluded that the claim in the viral post is false. The man seen collapsing in the video has not passed away and is recuperating in a hospital.