Recently on various WhatsApp groups, a fake text is being shared. It claims that “RUSSIAN PRESIDENT, Vladimir Putin Says: Pakistan Is A Cemetery For Pakistani’s.”

Fake WhatsApp Message Text:

RUSSIAN PRESIDENT, Vladimir Putin Says: Pakistan Is A Cemetery For Pakistani’s:

“When a Pakistani becomes rich, his bank accounts are in Switzerland. He travels to London/America for Medical treatment.

He invests in UK/Dubai. He buys from Dubai. He consumes Chinese. He prays in Rome or Mecca. his children study in Europr. He travels to Canada, USA, Europe for tourism.

If he die, he will be buried in his native country of Pakistan.

Pakistan is just a cemetery for Pakistani’s. How could a cemetery be developed?”

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA

These types of hoax messages are being shared by mischievous people to create confusion in the minds of readers and to push a specific confirmation bias. This kind of message has also been shared on Twitter, Facebook and Whats App:







RUSSIAN PRESIDENT, Vladimir Putin Says: Pakistan Is A Cemetery For Pakistani’s: "When a Pakistani becomes rich, his bank accounts are in Switzerland. He travels to London/ America for Medical treatment. He… https://t.co/jaQihBWeg0 — MUSTAFA AL-QAMARI (@MUSTAFAALQAMARI) November 28, 2018

RUSSIAN PRESIDENT, Vladimir Putin Says: Pakistan Is A Cemetery For Pakistani’s: "When a Pakistani becomes rich, his bank accounts are in Switzerland. He travels to London/ America for Medical treatment. He invests in Uk/ Dubai. He buys from Dubai. He consumes Chinese. He prays — Sohail mahmood (@Sohail59743961) November 26, 2018

OUR FACT CHECK

Fact Crescendo team did a fact check on this issue. We did Google Reverse Image search & Google search of the message text and found many references online. We also researched various WhatsApp groups, Facebook & Twitter handles to see who were sharing and commenting on this hoax message.

We found the following:

This fake message is being shared around on WhatsApp groups for last few months and is slowly gaining traction, especially in Pakistani social media handles.

This message is trying to push forward a narrative that the rich & powerful in Pakistan do not contribute much towards betterment of Pakistan.

There has never been a real life event wherein Vladimir Putin had said that “Pakistan Is A Cemetery For Pakistani’s” as claimed in the fake WhatsApp message and none of the major news media networks have posted this kind of news online.

been a real life event wherein Vladimir Putin had said that “Pakistan Is A Cemetery For Pakistani’s” as claimed in the fake WhatsApp message and none of the major news media networks have posted this kind of news online. In fact there was non-confirmed reports that Vladimir Putin had allegedly commented that “ Africa Is A Cemetery For African’s”. This alleged comment of Putin became viral online in Africa. Given below are few of the links as examples:

Dr.Mumbi Show

Is Putin Right in “Africa a Cemetery” Comment?



MTO News

How Africa

Cnyakundi

Zambian Observer

IN CONCLUSION

Fact Crescendo team tags these kinds of posts as Fake. These kinds of hoax posts or messages will be shared across by many people using WhatsApp and other social media applications again & again. But we as readers should be aware of the reality of these kinds of messages, as to what they really are – just Fake.

Fact Crescendo advises its readers to refrain from falling prey to unsubstantiated & misleading WhatsApp forwards and social media posts. When in doubt, visit various news media & fact checking websites online.

Dear Readers,

Do you feel that a certain story is fake? Do you know some additional factual details about a claim being shared on social media?

Then you can submit that claim or news here, for our team to verify and fact check for you.

Thanks,

-Fact Crescendo Team-