Incessant rains that have been pounding Tamil Nadu for the last few days have led to widespread flooding and waterlogging across the state, including the capital city of Chennai.

In this context, a video of an airport inundated in heavy rains is circulating on social media as visuals from Chennai international airport.

The same video was also carried by some news channels in Tamil Nadu.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. Though flight services have been impacted at Chennai airport, this particular video was shot in 2017 at Mexico’s Benito Juarez International Airport.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found that the same video was tweeted by multiple Mexico-based media outlets on August 31, 2017. According to these tweets, the video is from Aeropuerto Internacional Benito Juárez Ciudad de México (AICM), the international airport of Mexico City.

Another Spanish tweet with the video translates to, “AICM has suspended operations because of the rains. This is what some track areas look like.”

On August 31, 2017, the official Twitter handle (https://twitter.com/AICM_mx/status/903052935009103872 ) of AICM had also confirmed that it suspended operations due to heavy rains.

Further, several Spanish media reports had carried the video or its screenshots as flooding of the Mexico international airport on August 31, 2017.

Situation at Chennai airport

On November 11 afternoon, the official Twitter handle of Chennai airport had tweeted that arrivals at the airport will be suspended from 1.15 -6 pm over fears of crosswinds.

#Update | Due to severe rains and heavy cross winds, arrivals at #AAI Chennai Airport will remain suspended from 1315 hrs to 1800 hrs, today. Departures will continue. The decision has been taken considering the safety aspect of passengers and severity of wind. @AAI_Official— Chennai (MAA) Airport (@aaichnairport) November 11, 2021

Around 6:30 pm, the handle tweeted that arrivals have resumed at Chennai airport.

advertisement

Multiple airlines have also announced on Twitter that their operations will be impacted due to bad weather in Chennai.

However, according to latest reports, a ‘red alert’ for heavy rainfall that was earlier issued for several Tamil Nadu districts including Chennai, was withdrawn on November 11 evening.

The video in question was fact-checked by AFWA in October 2020 when it circulated as from Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA).

Hence, it is clear that the video is from Mexico City and over four years old. The visuals are not from Chennai airport, though flight services there were marginally impacted due to heavy downpour.