A CCTV footage of a brawl between three men is viral on social media claiming that it shows a Muslim man fighting back two French men.

The viral video shows a man in a grey hooded sweatshirt in a heated argument with two other men in black sleeveless vests. Later, the man in the hoodie overpowers the other two men, leaving them flat on the floor.

advertisement

The caption to one such video in the Hindi language translates as, "#France news: Two French men attacked a Muslim in France, thinking he is alone and will be unable to fight back. But watch the video to know how the Muslim man fought back..."

The video is being shared in the backdrop of the beheading of a French teacher outside his school on October 16, 2020. The teacher Samuel Paty was killed by a radical Islamist student who found cartoons of Prophet Muhammad shown by Paty offensive. As a result, several users on social media called for an open boycott of French products.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. The video is not from France but from a fight that took place in a restaurant in Brazil on October 12, 2020.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

AFWA PROBE

With the help of the InVid tool, we found a longer version of the same video carried by multiple news reports from Brazil. The video is of an incident that took place on October 12, 2020, at a restaurant in Ouro Branco, in the central region of Minas Gerais state in Brazil.

Various social media handles from Brazil have also shared the same video.

In the longer version of the video, we can also see the man in a grey sweatshirt leaving on a bike while the other two men are getting into a car.

According to a report published on October 23, the man in the grey sweatshirt is a motorcycle courier boy who was attacked on the night of October 12 by two men. One of the two men is identified as a regular offender named Rafael Junior da Costa Vieira, also known as Jackie Chan.

The report also mentions that following the incident, Rafael allegedly fired four shots at a car that was parked on the street and was eventually detained by police on the same night.

In a G1 report published on October 27, the investigating officer in the case, Marcelo Fonseca Prado is quoted as saying that Rafael is "feared in the city". He was in an inebriated state on the night of the fight, according to the officer.

advertisement

The officer further said the CCTV footage shows Rafael and his friend warning the courier boy to stay away from Rafael's girlfriend. The police also said the courier boy, however, denied to know Rafael from before and said he is already married.

Also, as the footage is from October 12, the fight cannot be in the backdrop of the French teacher Paty's beheading that happened on October 16.

Hence, it is clear that the CCTV footage in question is from Brazil and not France.