Bilkis Bano, the octogenarian who became the face of anti-citizenship law protests in Delhi's Shaheen Bagh, was detained earlier this month for participating in the farmers' agitation at the Singhu border.

And according to some social media users, Bano has been in jail since December 1. One such claim by Jammu and Kashmir Youth Congress leader Aabid Mir Magami says, "A reminder: 86 year old Bilkis Dadi is still in jail! #Day19".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. Bano was escorted back home by police from the Singhu border on the same day. She has been at her Shaheen Bagh residence in Southeast Delhi since then.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Upon searching the Internet, we could not find any credible news report on Bano's arrest.

According to media reports, Bano had reached the Delhi-Haryana border in Singhu on December 1 to join the farmers' protest. She was detained by police and escorted back to her home in southeast Delhi.

Bilkis Bano and her son Manzoor at their residence in Shaheen Bagh (Photo Credits: India Today)

When AFWA reached out to Bano, she rubbished the viral claim.

Speaking to us over the phone, she said, "On December 1, I was directly escorted back to my Shaheen Bagh residence from Singhu border. I wasn't even taken to the police station. Since then, I've been at home. The claim that I'm in prison is false."

Bilkis Bano 'Shaheen Bagh Dadi' photographed on December 1 after she was denied to join the farmers' protest at Singhu border (Photo Credits: PTI)

AFWA also spoke to Bano's son Manzoor Ahmad who said the family has not decided when she will join the farmers' protest again.

"My mother Bilkis Bano is 82 and not 86 as claimed in some social media posts. Since December 1, she has not stepped outside home for any protest and has been with us. We do not know when she will join the farmers' protest next. We are waiting for the Covid-19 pandemic to settle down," Ahmad said.

Hence, it is clear that the viral claim that Bilkis Bano is in jail is false. After she was detained at the Singhu border on December 1, she was escorted back home and hasn't stepped out since then.