A collage of three photos showing a cameraman crying while looking at footballer Andre Gomes’ fractured ankle is viral on social media. An emotional message attached to the post portrays that even the cameraman couldn’t hold back his tears when the footballer broke his ankle.

The Everton Midfielder suffered a fracture dislocation of his right ankle after he was tripped by Tottenham Hotspur’s Son Heung-min during a football match at Liverpool, England on November 3.

advertisement

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is actually about 11 months old. The photographer is an Iraqi photojournalist who cried when the Iraqi team lost a match in the AFC Asian Cup football tournament held at the beginning of this year.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Facebook page See YoN posted the collage with the caption: Saddest picture on the internet, it is not only a football it is an emotion. By the time of filing this story, the post had already been shared more than 700 times.

To verify the claim, we ran a reverse search on the image of the photograph and found that the photo was clicked in January this year. The Iraqi photojournalist had become emotional when his country’s team lost their game to Qatar by 1-0 in the round of 16 during the AFC Asia Cup 2019.

We found that the photograph had also been shared on the official Facebook page and Twitter handle of AFC Asian Cup.

Passionate. Emotional moment for an Iraqi photographer during the Round of 16 clash against ! #AsianCup2019 pic.twitter.com/KZoXsp1N4U— #AsianCup2023 (@afcasiancup) January 24, 2019

We also found some media reports that had published the same story. As per a news report published by Fox Sports the photographer in the viral image is Mohammad al-Azzawi.

Earlier too, this photo had gone viral along with a photograph of Indian wicketkeeper Mahendra Singh Dhoni when he was run out in the World Cup semi-final against New Zealand this year. India Today had fact-checked the claim then too.