A video purportedly of the King of Bahrain arriving in Dubai with his robot bodyguard is viral on social media. In the 30-seconds video, a man dressed in a thawb (a long tunic-like garment) and wearing a keffiyeh (scarf) on his head can be seen closely followed by a robot and several others.

The caption along with one such video uploaded on Twitter by a verified user Roshan Abeysinghe reads, “King of Bahrain arrives in Dubai with his robot bodyguard fitted 360 with cameras and inbuilt pistols. Technology moving very fast than ever in history. Now politicians might order this too.”

advertisement King of Bahrain arrives in Dubai with his robot bodyguard fitted 360 with cameras and in built pistols. Technology moving very fast than ever in history. Now politicians might order this too pic.twitter.com/YK8aI65z4N— Roshan Abeysinghe (@RoshanCricket) August 14, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim is misleading. The man in the video is not the King of Bahrain and the robot is not his bodyguard.

Official Facebook page of DY365, an Assamese news channel also shared the same video with the misleading claim.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here, and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of the InVID tool, we reverse-searched one of the keyframes of the video and found news reports by Gulf News and Khaleej Times about the robot in the viral video.

According to a Gulf News report published on February 18, 2019, the eight feet tall, 60 kg robot was a greeter at Abu Dhabi’s International Defence Exhibition, Idex 2019.

The report further says the multilingual robot that walks in a military vest is named Titan and it is the world's first commercial entertainment robot artist developed by the British company Cyberstein.

The Khaleej Times quoted Titan as saying, “Peace and blessings be with you. How are you all visitors? The best thing to happen to me at Idex this year is being hired by the Safe City Group. Yay!"

However, we couldn’t find any report from credible sources that said the robot is fitted with 360-degree cameras and pistols as claimed by many netizens.

We also found a longer version of the video in question uploaded on February 24, 2019, on a YouTube channel DUBAI7 with the title “8-ft Titan robot greets visitors at UAE defense show Idex in Abu Dhabi”.

In the 3 minutes 28-second video, the robot can be seen walking around and greeting guests.

Also, a closer look at the video shows the UAE national flag on the arm and shoulder of the robot.

According to some other reports, it was Chief of Staff of the Bahrain Defence Force (BDF), Lieutenant-General Dheyab bin Saqr Al-Nuaimi who visited UAE’s Idex 2020 and not King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa.

Hence the viral video is not of King of Bahrain walking with his robot bodyguard. The video shows Titan, a commercial entertainment robot at Abu Dhabi’s International Defence Exhibition, Idex 2019.