After Biplab Kumar Deb resigned as the Chief Minister of Tripura, an old speech of Prime minister Narendra Modi has now gone viral on social media. Several users claimed that Manik Saha, whom the BJP wanted to be removed four years ago, has now been brought back as the chief minister.

Multiple social media users have posted the portion of the speech of PM Modi where he can be heard urging people to replace Manik (ruby) with “Hira” (diamond) in Tripura.

advertisement

The caption says: PM Modi had told the people of Tripura 4 years ago-"Now you don't want a Manik, get rid of Manik. Now you need diamonds. Do you want a diamond or not? " Today, BJP has snatched the diamond and brought back Manik Saha as Tripura's new chief minister.

Another Facebook caption in Hindi reads, "Now you don't want Manik Saha, get rid of Manik Saha. Now you need diamonds. Do you want a diamond or not?’ Today, BJP has elected Tripura Chief and Rajya Sabha MP Dr. Manik Saha as the new Chief Minister of Tripura.”

The same post has gone viral on Twitter.

The India Today Anti-Fake News War Room ( AFWA) found that in the four-year-old video, PM Narendra Modi was referring to the then Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar and not Manik Saha.

The viral posts are archived here, here, and here.

AFWA probe

We have found that Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing a rally in Tripura’s Sonamura in February 2018 during the state assembly election, had targeted the then Chief Minister Manik Sarkar and said that people of the state did not deserve ‘Manik’ but a ‘HIRA’ i.e 'H'ighway, 'I'ways (digital connectivity), 'R'oadways and 'A'irways.

This was reported in 2018 on multiple mainstream media.

In the 2018 election, BJP toppled the Manik Sarkar-led Left government in Tripura and Biplab Kumar Deb assumed the office of the chief minister of the state.

Biplab Kumar Deb resigned from the Chief Minister’s post recently -- just a year left before the assembly election.

Manik Saha, the BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP from the state and the state president of BJP has sworn-in as the new chief minister on May 15.

Thus, a few netizens have mixed up the former CM Manik Sarkar with Manik Saha, the new CM of Tripura, while referring to an old clip of PM Modi’s speech.

(With Inputs from Yash Mittal)