Heart-wrenching images and videos of koalas and kangaroos devastated and displaced by the catastrophic bushfires in Australia have shocked the world. And videos related to the animal world Down Under have been drawing lots of attention on social media.

A video of a red fox breastfeeding has gone viral with the claim that it is feeding baby koalas, and relating it to the bushfires in Australia. Facebook page Daily India Times posted a 33-second clip of the same with the caption, A Fox allows itself to feed Koala Babies in Australia. #AustraliaBushfires.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) has found the post to be misleading. The video is at least six years old and has nothing to do with the recent bushfires in Australia. Also, the mother fox is not feeding koalas but fox kits.

With a combination of InVID reverse image and Google searches, we found that the video is on the Internet for quite some time and it has been circulating with multiple claims.

YouTube channel around the world uploaded the same video in 2018 with the caption, Female fox feeding young monkeys, rare scene.

Another YouTube channel, Balkan Music, uploaded the video in 2016 with the caption, Mother Fox feeding her babies.

In 2014, YouTuber Luc Durocher uploaded the video, along with a few more videos, which shows the mother red fox breastfeeding her kits. The caption in French reads, Renards roux - Tétée, which Google translation shows as Red foxes - Feeding.

There are other video clips of the same fox shot from different angles that have also been uploaded by Luc Durocher.

In the other video clips, the fox cubs can easily be identified and it leaves little room for viewers to doubt if they are koalas.

We could not independently verify as to who shot these videos and where. But since this video is available from 2014 and other videos confirm that the mother fox is feeding her kits, the viral claim that it is related to the Australian bushfires is misleading.