More than 100 Indian players across 17 categories have so far made it to the Tokyo Olympics, scheduled to begin from July 23. All eyes are on the mega event that had to be postponed last year due to the Covid-19 outbreak.

But has India, and more specifically Hindi, found special mention in this Olympics? If some netizens are to be believed, volunteers at the event will be given a medal on which the word ‘volunteer’ will be written in 11 global languages ‘swayamsevak’ will be written in Hindi too. Social media users say this shows how India has gained stature on the global stage.

advertisement

Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president Dr Narinder Dhruv Batra also shared the picture of the said medal on his verified Facebook page. “Volunteer Medal for Volunteers in Tokyo Olympics, has SWAYAMSEWAK written on it in Hindi,” he wrote.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that no such medal has been introduced by the International Olympic Committee so far. The viral image is of an Olympic-themed ‘pin’ which is being sold on the e-commerce website ‘eBay’.

Though Batra later deleted the post, the claim went viral on Facebook, Twitter The archived version of one such post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

We did not find any information on the official Olympics website about the said medal for volunteers with ‘swayamsevak’ inscribed on it. No credible media outlet has reported it either. Had this been true, it would have certainly got widespread media coverage.

Reverse-searching the viral image along with relevant keywords led us to the e-commerce website “eBay”. Here, the same item is being sold for US $1.50 (around Rs 111)

Going through the product description and scanning its images taken from different angles, we found that the viral image does not show any “medal” but a pin/badge that can be fastened on to garments. On eBay, it has been described as “Olympic Tokyo2020 pin volunteer languages benevole volontair pin”.

No clue if this news is genuine or fake: Dr Batra

We spoke to IOA president Dr Narinder Dhruv Batra who’d shared the claim. He told us he was not aware of the source of the claim and had shared it because the person who forwarded it to him was quite responsible.

“I have no idea if the person who sent this to me was aware of its source or he too had relied on a forwarded message. I can remove it if there’s something wrong about it. IOA has nothing to do with this volunteer medal news,” he said.

The Olympics website has a list of items which would be provided to volunteers. This list does not mention any medal.

Dr Batra deleted the Facebook post minutes after talking to us.

‘Electronic junk’ transformed into medals

advertisement

It is noteworthy that used mobile phones and other electronic gadgets were used to create the gold, silver and bronze Olympic-Paralympic medals this time. This unique initiative was named the Tokyo 2020 Medal Project.The design of these medals can be seen here.

However, these medals are supposed to be given to winners and not volunteers.

This clearly shows that an Olympic-2020 themed pin being sold on an e-commerce website is falsely being shared as a medal to be distributed to volunteers at the Tokyo Olympics.