Momentum is building up between the two countries Russia and Ukraine leading to a war-like situation. Now both the countries have entered the 10th day into such a situation, to which the US has held the hand of Ukraine by sending tons of weapons and ammunition to the Ukraine army. Where on the other side Russians on the west are trying to talk it all loud in GENEVA.

The situation is heating up and the tension between Russia and Ukraine is increasing every hour, the Russian military has too launched a military war against Ukraine, resulting in the killing of more than 2000 civilians.

Where It All Started?

So to know how it all started let’s dig into the history:

The Russian-Ukrainian War began in 2014 when the Russian troops annexed Crimea from Ukraine.

This all began as an internal Ukrainian crisis in November 2013, when President Viktor Yanukovych showed no interest to join hands with NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organisation) which lead to a great protest against victor forcing him to run away from the country.

In April 2014 with low-level fighting between the Ukrainian military and Russian. The separatist rebels seized some towns in predominantly Russian-speaking eastern Ukraine. It has since escalated and remains an undeclared war between the two countries.

Fake News That Paved Its Way into these crises?

In between these tensions, many videos and pictures are getting viral all over social media and getting the attraction of many people.

So through our research, we have spotted such fake and misleading pictures and videos to show the real picture from the ongoing scenario.

Claim1. The picture of The Woman Holding A Riffle On A Bus is from Ukraine.

Fact Check: This same Image was found on Reddit which was 7 months old hence, cannot be of recent Ukraine.

Claim2: Subramanian Swamy, Zee Tv(DNA), and News18 shared an image of ISCKON Temple distributing food to Ukrainians on their official account.

Fact Check: The pictures getting viral is from 2015 which was shared on ISCKON Temple’s official website and the image was used in the article.

Claim3: Photo of the injured girl going viral is from the 2018 Syrian war is again used in the Ukraine war.

Fact Check: This picture is from the Syrian War. Which was published by the BBC in one of its articles on January 6, 2018.

Claim4: Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelenskyy has put on the military costume amid the war.

Fact Check: The image was uploaded on December 6, 2021, when Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited the military in Donbas, as already captured by gettyimages.

Claim 5: Zelenskyy has joined the army to fights against the Russian Army. In the same way, another news of the vice-president’s wife joining the Ukraine army is going viral.

Fact Check: The picture is of 2021. I-stock posted the same picture on 22 August 2021 on the celebration of 30 years to Ukraine’s Independence, also the Lady is not the wife of the Vice-president of Ukraine. Hence the picture is not of the Ukraine-Russia war.

Claim 6: Amid Russia’s attack on Ukraine a huge explosion can be seen claiming it to be an attack on Ukraine headquarters.

Fact Check: Video of the explosion at Beirut Port In which nearly 218 people were killed and 7,000 were injured in the explosion caused by the storage of a large amount of ammonium nitrate.

Claim 7: Two young Ukrainian children holding hands of each other, sending off soldiers to fight the Russians.

Fact Check: the picture is from Ukrainian National News(UNN). This report was published on March 23, 2016. Under the headline’ “A series of photos “Children of War” was published by the Ministry of Defense.”

Claim 8: The Sikh community raising a helping hand is getting viral on social media amid the Russia-Ukraine war.

Fact Check: WeTheSikhs posted the same picture of a food truck in 2018 food truck as it is Canada’s first free food truck and it works as Langar.

Claim 9: An emotional video is shared, where it is seen that the men in uniforms are leaving for war and giving a tight hug, showing the scene of Anxiety, fear, and love.

Fact Check: this video is from a documentary film of Ukraine titled, ‘The War Of Chimeras’ from the year 2017.

Claim 10: Ukrainian Interior Ministry confirms that its capital Kyiv is under attack from Russian cruise and ballistic missiles and war has begun.

Fact Check: This picture is of Israeli airstrikes in the Gaza Strip, controlled by the Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas, and was of May 10, 2021.

Claim 11: The video was shared by Zee news under the caption, “जंग के बीच रूस पहुंचे Imran Khan के साथ हो गया खेल” which translates into Imran khan got played when he reached Russia in between the war.

Fact Check: The video getting viral is an old video from Parade rehearsal 05/04/2020, Air part, Flight of aircraft over Tushino.

Claim 12: A video is getting massively viral on the internet. Sharing the video, social media users are writing the caption, “Russian military paratroopers land in Ukraine, near Kharkov.”

Fact Check: The video was uploaded on 18th september, 2016 with the caption, “Massive air ‘desant’. Russian Airborne Troops is the strategic reserve of the Supreme commander and subordinate to the President of Russia.

Conclusion:

Lot many fake news are all around the internet. It is advice able to confirm the news first and then share it if real to the on-going scenario. We at DFRAC (Digital Forensics Research And Analytic Center) always search such fake news and present the reality in front of you. So that you are always updated with the outside world and news.