A post referring to one of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech has created a buzz on social media.

A Twitter screenshot, which claims that Prime Minister Modi had said that 33 crore bank accounts were opened in Chhattisgarh, is going viral on Facebook.

Netizens are taking a dig at the Prime Minister asking him how is such a thing possible when the population of Chattisgarh is around 2.55 crore.

Screenshot of the Facebook post

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be misleading.

Prime Minister Modi has never said that 33 crore bank accounts opened only in Chhattisgarh.

Facebook page 'FekuExpress' on Saturday posted a screenshot of one of the tweets of user Mohan Guruswamy which dates back November 17, 2018.

"33 Crs Bank Accounts were opened in Chhatisgarh alone..."



~ Narendra Modi.



The total population of Chattisgarh is 2.55 crores. The rest of the accounts are perhaps benami or just bakwasi. Mohan Guruswamy (@mohanguruswamy) November 17, 2018





The post reads: "33 Crs bank accounts were opened in Chhattisgarh alone - Narendra Modi. The total population of Chhattisgarh is 2.55 crores. The rest of the accounts are perhaps benami or just bakwasi."

By the time of filing the story, this post was already shared by nearly 700 people.

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

The post was retweeted by more than 2,800 people and liked over 6,000 times.

Twitter user Mustak Patel also uploaded the mischievously trimmed speech of PM Modi with the same claim.

To verify the claim, we looked for all speeches of Modi delivered in Chhattisgarh in 2018. We found a speech of PM Modi from his rally in Ambikapur on November 16, 2018, where he talked about Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana.

Around 47 minutes and15 seconds into this speech, PM can be heard saying "Today we have 33 crore bank accounts opened. In Chhattisgarh alone, 1.25 crore bank accounts have been opened for the people who had never visited a bank before. (Aaj hamare yahan 33 crore logo ke bank account khul gaye hain bhaiyo, 33 crore, akele Chhattisgarh me sava crore log jinhone kabhi bank ka darwaja nahi khola tha, ek chai wale ne unke liye bank ka darwaja khol diya, bank ka khata khol diya, bank pr uska bhi adhikar jama diya.)"

So it is clear that PM Modi did not claim to have opened 33 crore bank accounts in Chhattisgarh alone.

advertisement

In fact, he was referring to the total number of bank accounts (33 crores) opened under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) in India.

In his speech, the Prime Minister added that the total number of bank accounts opened under this scheme in Chhattisgarh was 1.25 crore.

According to the official website of Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), a total number of 13,928,009 Jan Dhan accounts have been opened in Chhattisgarh till February 13, 2019.

India Today found that Modi's statement has been trimmed in the viral post to send a misleading narrative.