With the monsoon wreaking havoc and causing flood-like situation in some states, a video of a rescue operation led by the Indian Army has gone viral on social media.

The viral video shows water gushing onto a road dangerously as soldiers take civilians, stuck in a building, to safety. The men in uniform are seen forming a human chain and holding hands to save people from being washed away.

Sharing this video, some Twitter users claimed that it was a scene from Rajasthan's Sri Ganganagar. "Indian Army comes to the rescue amid the flood situation in Ganganagar," wrote a user.

Archived versions of similar claims can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found these claims to be misleading as this video is neither a recent one nor from Sri Ganganagar. The rescue operation was carried out by the Indian Army last year in Nainital, Uttarakhand.

AFWA PROBE

A reverse search of the screenshots led us to some news reports from October 2021, carrying a similar image of the operation.

According to a report in Amar Ujala published on October 20, 2021, several tourists were trapped inside local stores on the main road after the famous Naini lake overflowed, following heavy rainfall. The Army was at the spot to rescue them.

AajTak published a report on October 19, 2021, mentioning several labourers had died in Nainital's Ramgarh due to the flood. The situation worsened after Nainital lake overflowed, forming a strong current towards the Bhowali and Haldwani routes.

Subsequent searches with keywords led us to the same rescue video uploaded by CNN-News18 on October 19, 2021. The video report noted that the Army rescued at least 36 people trapped in local shops and it took them over 14 hours.

ABP News reported that the rescue operation took place on the mall road of Nainital.

When we searched for the recent developments in Sri Ganganagar, a report in The Print, published on July 16, mentioned that several parts of the Sri Ganganagar district in Rajasthan have been flooded following torrential rain across the city on Friday. The Army and the BSF were deployed to take charge of the rescue and relief operations.

advertisement

However, the viral video claiming to be from Sri Ganganagar is actually from Nainital and is nearly a year old.

Also Read: | Fact Check: Jolting Afghanistan explosion shared as Pakistan power plant blast