A video of a woman being thrashed and kicked on the roadside by a group of men is going viral on social media with the claim that this is how Muslims are treated in India. A policeman is also seen in the video, but he does not interfere.

Verified Twitter user “Ali Keskin” posted the 75-second video with the caption, “Muslims are oppressed in India and will continue to be oppressed if we do not protect them. It's time to be unity. The Indian government will account! #ModiResignation”.

advertisement Muslims are oppressed in India and will continue to be oppressed if we do not protect them. It's time to be unity. The Indian government will account! #ModiResignationpic.twitter.com/uNM7cz3tLE— Ali Keskin (@alikeskin_tr) May 23, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. It was a family dispute in Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh, and there is no communal angle to the incident. Police have confirmed that the accused and victim are both Hindus and from the same family.

Ali Keskin’s tweet was liked by more than 4,300 users and retweeted over 2,300 times till the filing of this story. The archived version can be seen here. The misleading post is also viral on Facebook.

AFWA investigation

Using related keywords, we found that many social media users have posted the video with the claim that the incident is from Rehra Bazar area in Balrampur, UP.

We also found some news reports regarding the video. As per “Amar Ujala”, the woman named Susheela was thrashed by her husband Ashok over a dispute related to selling their house.

Soon, two brothers and three nephews of Ashok also joined him and started beating Susheela. The whole incident occurred in the presence of cops. Four accused, including the woman’s husband, were arrested.

Balrampur Superintendent of Police Dev Ranjan Verma also took cognisance of the matter and suspended two policemen who were present on the spot but didn’t intervene. His press conference can be seen below.

Balrampur police also confirmed to us that the viral claim is false. “The victim and the accused are Hindus and from the same family, so there’s no communal angle in the matter,” SHO Vinod Agnihotri said.

Therefore, it is clear that the claim along with the video is communally motivated as the woman was beaten up due to a family dispute.