This is not a real video. The video is a part of a short film named Dailing presented in the Dubai International Film Festival in 2015. It does not show a Ukrainian soldier during war.

After Russia announced its military operation in Ukraine, several emotional videos and images on how the soldiers are leaving their families for the war surfaced on social media platforms.

In this backdrop, a video showing a soldier expressing how much he loves his family is being shared on social media platforms as a Ukrainian soldier’s emotional video for his family before he joins the war.

The caption of the post reads, “Ukraine war soldier emotion for family during war.”

Facebook Post | Facebook Post | Archive Link

We have debunked several emotional videos recently which were purported to be from Ukraine. Hence, we decided to verify this viral video as well. Is this video actually of a Ukrainian soldier fighting in the ongoing war? Let’s find out!

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google with one of the key frames of the video. The results led us to the same video published by Dubai International Film Festival’s Youtube channel on 24 November 2015. According to the caption, the name of this short film is Dialing. The film is written by Ahmad Alsa’ad and produced by Imam Khadum center for Cuture. The director of this film is Bahaa Al Kadimy.

Gulf News wrote an article on the films presents in the 2015 Dubai International Film Festival. They wrote that the film Dailing- which follows an Iraqi woman who refuses to accept her son’s death. Unable to accept the evidence before her, she journeys through the neighbourhood in search of a phone she can use to contact him, despite not knowing how to use one.

ALSO READ: Visuals from a movie shared as Ukrainian Soldiers bidding Farewell to their Wives & Girlfriends

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video on social media to be False. The video showing a soldier expressing his love for his family is actually a scene from a film. The clip is from the film named Dailing presented in the Dubai International Film Festival in 2015.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)