The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had to close Mughal emperor Aurangzeb's tomb and deploy additional security following a tweet by Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) spokesperson saying that it should be destroyed. The historical monument remains shut since May 19 following an attempt by the mosque committee to lock it.

Now, a video has gone viral on Twitter in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is seen paying his respects in front of a tomb. Several netizens claimed this was the resting place of Aurangzeb.

advertisement

"Modi ji offering flowers at Aurangzeb's tomb," one such tweet with the video read.

Similar claims have been archived here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The video shows PM Modi paying tribute at the tomb of the last Mughal emperor, Bahadur Shah Zafar in Myanmar.

AFWA Probe

A reverse search of the viral video's keyframes returned results in plenty. However, these reports were not recent. Among the top results was a link to a YouTube video by Republic World.

The logo of the channel was seen on the top-right of the viral video as well. Uploaded on September 7, 2017, the video was titled "PM Modi Pays Tribute At Tomb Of Bahadur Shah Zafar In Myanmar".

The video was 1 minute and 23 seconds long and the scenes from the now viral video were found 40 seconds into it.

This helped to confirm that the video is not recent. We ran keyword searches on Google to find more about Modi's visit to the tomb of Bahadur Shah Zafar.

A report by India Today from the same day as the YouTube video, confirmed that the video was shot at the resting place of the last Mughal emperor situated in Myanmar's Yangon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was on his first bilateral visit to the neighbouring country after entering the office, paid his tributes at Zafar's dargah. This report can be read here.

Exiled by the British to Rangoon after the revolt of 1857, Bahadur Shah Zafar breathed his last aged 87 in Burmese soil on November 7, 1862. His tomb was discovered in 1991 and an Islamic shrine was opened there in December 1994.

We noticed that the PM's dress and the people seen accompanying him in the viral video were the same as that in the YouTube video and the report. We also found reports by The Hindu and Times Of India from September 7, 2017, that had more pictures of him that confirmed the video was taken from Myanmar at the tomb of Bahadur Shah Zafar.

advertisement

The official handle of the PIB had tweeted the picture of the Prime Minister at the dargah on the same day. "PM @narendramodi at the Mazar of Bahadur Shah Zafar, the last Mughal Emperor, in Yangon. #IndiaMyanmar," it read.

PM @narendramodi at the Mazar of Bahadur Shah Zafar, the last Mughal Emperor, in Yangon. #IndiaMyanmar pic.twitter.com/EhAIMxRQJF — PIB India (@PIB_India) September 7, 2017

Aurangzeb is criticised from many quarters for the persecution of his subjects who followed faiths other than Islam. His tomb is situated in Maharashtra's Khuldabad. We couldn't retrieve any recent reports about PM Modi visiting the resting place of Aurangzeb.

However, it can be concluded beyond doubt that the video in circulation with the claim that it showed PM Modi paying floral tributes at the tomb of Mughal ruler Aurangzeb is misleading. It was shot in 2017 when Modi was at the resting place of Bahadur Shah Zafar, which is in Myanmar.

(With inputs from Adarsh Singh in New Delhi)