Windows broken, glass shattered and blood all around! Amid this, an injured man comforts a newborn, while a woman lies on a rickety hospital bed, glass pieces and blood strewn on it. A set of three pictures with such visuals is circulating on social media with the claim that this is how women are giving birth in Afghanistan.

Since the Taliban takeover of Kabul, numerous pictures and videos of the pathetic conditions of Afghans have surfaced on social media. However, this post has unnerved netizens a bit more.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the pictures were taken in a Beirut hospital on August 4 last year when blasts rocked the Lebanese capital. The baby was born 15 minutes before the blasts that killed over 200 people. The family survived.

Story behind the viral images

Using reverse image search, we found the truth behind the viral pictures. Twitter user Asaad Hanna had posted these images on August 8, 2020. The caption of his tweet reads, “This lady just gave birth at the hour of the explosion in #Beirut... again the doctors prove that they’re the real heroes and the first line responders”.

This lady just gave birth at the hour of the explosion in #Beirut... again the doctors prove ghat they’re the real heroes and the first line responders pic.twitter.com/bxJ6ezmW1R— Asaad Hanna (@AsaadHannaa) August 8, 2020

These images were published on several news websites last year.

According to these news reports, the couple, Jad and Christelle Sawaya, welcomed their first child on August 4, 2020, at Al Roum hospital in Beirut. Just 15 minutes after the baby’s birth, Beirut witnessed devastating explosions that killed over 200 people.

But the family survived the blasts miraculously. The images caught the aftermath of the explosion inside the hospital room, where the mother can be seen lying on a broken bed, with shards of windowpanes everywhere. While the parents got injured , the baby survived miraculously.

Speaking to a local news portal, the man said that the couple took each other’s pictures along with their newborn Nabil to inform their relatives through WhatsApp that they were safe after the explosion.

Hence, the claim that they are from Afghanistan is misleading.