A video of a bridge collapse is doing rounds on social media with a claim that this incident took place in Uttar Pradesh on 23 February.

The same video is also being claimed as being from Hyderabad where the Balanagar-Jeedimetla flyover is allegedly said to have crashed down.

Fact Crescendo received many requests about this video on our WhatsApp Factline (9049053770).

We found out that the viral video is of an accident that took place in Varanasi in 2018. An old video is being passed off with a wrong claim.

WHAT’S THE CLAIM?

A 59-second video clip shows a large portion of a bridge collapsed on a busy road. It crushed many vehicles under it. The caption along with this video reads: “UP Flyover work collapsed Today morning”.

Original Post – Facebook | Archive

This video is being widely shared on Facebook claiming it from Hyderabad as well.

FACT CHECK

We performed a reverse image search upon key-frames of the viral video and it lead us to a news report of a flyover collapse in Varanasi in 2018.

According to ABP News and News18 India, two beams of an under-construction flyover collapsed near Varanasi railway station on 15 May 2018. At least 18 people lost their lives in this accident. You can see the video below.

This confirms that the viral video is not a recent one. It is a three-year-old video. A mini-bus and four cars came under the slab. At least 10 two-wheelers were also trapped, reported Economic Times at the time.

Seven engineers of UP Bridge Corporation had been arrested in this case.

Telangana State Police have clarified on Twitter the viral video is not from Hyderabad. They tweeted in reply to a user that the video does not belong to Balangar-Hyderabad. It’s a two year old video from Varanasi.

No sir, It's not belongs to Balangar-Hyderabad.

It's a two years old video of Varanasi. Please go through the link https://t.co/FmsslZNSSa — Telangana State Police (@TelanganaCOPs) February 24, 2021

CONCLUSION

An old video of a bridge collapse in Varanasi in 2018 is being shared as a recent incident.