Even as supporters of Donald Trump laid siege to Capitol Hill, a video of a man dressed in Batman suit started circulating on social media with the claim that this was how one of the protesters turned up.

Several Facebook users shared the clip with the caption, "Batman arrived at The US Capitol".

The short clip shows a man dressed as the caped crusader against evil, walking through a cloud of smoke, creating a surreal scene from Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight Rises". People start cheering in surprise, seeing someone in such realistic Batman attire.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral clip is from last year when a man named Bob Gable, also known as "Bucks County Batman", showed up at an anti-racism protest in Philadelphia against the killing of African-American George Floyd by a white police officer.

The archived versions of the post are saved here, here and here.

When 'Batman' lent a helping hand

Looking through the viral clip carefully, we found that almost at the end of the clip, a man can be seen holding a placard that read, "Justice George Floyd".

With the help of keyword search, we found some articles about a man turning up in a Batman costume in Philadelphia during the 'Black Lives Matter' protests after the killing of African-American George Floyd by a white police officer in Minneapolis. These articles were published last year around May and June.

Several Twitter users had also posted the viral video on May 31, 2020, with the caption, "Batman has arrived at a protest in Philadelphia looking for corrupt police officers".

An article published in "The Philadelphia Inquirer" on June 12, 2020, had identified the man as Bob Gable (43), a father of two and better known as "Bucks County Batman". Gable, who had turned up in a $12,000 Batsuit, told the website that he went to the protest to "help in any way that I could", to hand out water and to listen to young protesters.

The Instagram user "Bucks County Batman" had uploaded the viral video on May 31, 2020, with the caption, "Saving my city, be right back"





Hence, it is clear that the viral video showing a man in Batman costume is not associated with the recent protests in Capitol Hill, but from a 'Black Lives Matter' demonstration last year in Philadelphia.