As the world is fighting together against the COVID-19 pandemic, social media on the other hand is filled with misinformation related to the virus. The most recent misinformation going viral in the form of a news bulletin clipping claims that US President Trump has tested positive for COVID-19. In the viral video we can see a bulletin published by Fox News where the news readers inform the viewers that President Trump has tested positive for COVID-19 and that the White House has also put out a statement for the same.

Fact Crescendo also received a WhatsApp request on 9049053770 claiming the same.

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a simple keyword search on Google which led us to the original news report published by Fox News on 7th May 2020. The headline of the video mentioned that Trump’s valet tests positive for COVID-19. According to the news report the White House medical team confirmed that the valet for President Trump has tested positive for COVID-19. The President and Vice President have since been tested and results were negative. We can clearly see that the word “valet” has been digitally removed to misinform people. You can watch the full video below.

We also found several news reports by Washington Post, Politico and Hindustan Times confirming the same that US President Trump’s valet has tested positive for COVID-19. President Trump has been tested for the virus but the results were negative.

Below you can find a comparison image between the screenshot of the viral image and the real image of the news bulletin published by Fox News. One can clearly observe how the word “valet” has been digitally tampered and removed to mislead the viewers.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo concluded that the above mentioned post is False. US President Trump has been not tested positive for COVID-19. The video by Fox News has been digitally tampered. The channel announced that the US President’s valet has tested positive for novel coronavirus.

Below you can view the video comparison between the fake video and the real video which shows how the video has been digitally tampered