In Bihar, Nitish Kumar has split up the alliance with THE BJP and joined the grand alliance of RJD and Congress. He took oath as the Chief Minister of Bihar for the eighth time. Earlier, Nitish Kumar broke the grand alliance of RJD and Congress in 2017 and formed an alliance with BJP and formed the government.

Meanwhile, a video of Nitish Kumar is going viral on social media. Users who shared this video are criticizing Nitish Kumar saying that “Nitish broke the alliance of RJD and Congress in 2017 and said that I will get into the soil but will not go with RJD”.

Sharing this video, a verified user named Puneet Agarwal wrote – “Stay or get into the soil, no agreement with RJD is possible now in the future – @NitishKumar” On checking Puneet’s account, we found that he has written himself as the IT head of BJP Delhi.

While sharing this video, BJP leader and former MP Hari Manjhi wrote – “Mit jayenge mitti mein mil jayenge but the question of returning does not arise” Paltu Kumar-Kursi Kumar alias Nitish Kumar had said.

At the same time, this video is shared by lot of users.

Fact check:

To check the verification of the viral video, we searched the keyword “will be found in the soil” on Google. During this time, we received a report published on the website of the newspaper Dainik Jagran on February 18, 2014. The report was titled “Mitti mein mil jayenge par BJP se nahi milenge: Nitish”.

This report has mentioned that “Nitish Kumar has denied rejoining the BJP in the assembly and said that ‘he will get into the soil but will not compromise with the BJP.’ It is impossible, this chapter is now closed. ”

At the same time, to check the verification of the video, we saw the archive of the assembly proceedings on https://webcast.gov.in . In February 2014. We found a link to the live webcast of the Bihar Assembly proceedings of February 18, 2014 https://webcast.gov.in/events/MjM-/session/NTc- https://webcast.gov.in/events/MjM-/session/NTc-

In the duration of this live webcast from 01:20 minutes to 01:21 minutes, the part of Nitish Kumar’s viral video can be heard. Here you can hear That Nitish Kumar was speaking about breaking the alliance with BJP and not aligning with it again.

Conclusion:

Our fact check shows that the claim being made about Nitish Kumar is misleading. Nitish Kumar’s statement of getting into the soil was not on the RJD-Congress but in the Bihar Assembly after breaking the alliance with the BJP.

Claim:

Nitish kumar mentioned- Will get soil but won’t go with RJD.

Claimed:

Social media user.

Fact check:

Misleading.