A few days ago, a video of a woman, Priyadarshini Narayan Yadav, thrashing a cab driver in the middle of a Lucknow road went viral on social media.

The video left netizens divided over the incident with one group saying that the woman attacked the cab driver for no reason and calling for her arrest, while others claimed that the driver jumped the traffic signal and was in the wrong.

advertisement

Now, a video of a woman being escorted by police officers is viral with the claim that Priyadarshini has been arrested by the police.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. The woman in the video is ‘Rajasthan don’ Anuradha Chaudhary, an associate of notorious gagnster Kala Jathedi. Lucknow police confirmed to India Today that Priyadarshini is not yet arrested.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

We couldn’t find any credible report on the arrest of the Lucknow woman Priyadarshini. In the video in question, none of the officers and the woman can be seen wearing a mask.

This was one of the things we found unusual since it is mandatory now to wear face masks due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Moreover, the woman in the video doesn't resemble Priyadarshini.

For better clarification, we reached out to ADCP Central Lucknow Chiranjeev Nath Sinha, who is in charge of the Lucknow girl case. He confirmed that the viral claim is false and Priyadarshini has not been arrested.

However, according to reports, the Lucknow police has registered an FIR against the woman.

The viral video

We did a reverse search of some key frames of the video in question and found the same video uploaded on a YouTube channel in 2017. This confirmed that the video is old.

According to the description of this video, the woman seen in the clip is Anuradha Chaudhary, a criminal with a reward of Rs 10,000 declared from Rajasthan for her arrest.

Taking a cue from this we further searched and found screenshots from the same video used over the years by multiple media outlets on reports regarding gangster Anuradha Chaudhary.

Who is Anuradha Chaudhary?

Anuradha Chaudhary, also known as Rajasthan's ‘lady don’ and ‘Revolver Rani’ has a long criminal history of crimes like kidnapping, extortion, Arms and Excise Act violations, and cheating.

According to reports, she was a close associate of Rajasthan based-gangster Anand Pal, who died in a police encounter in June 2017.

advertisement

A special team of Delhi Police arrested her on July 31, and she is currently in a 14-day police remand.

Lucknow woman, Priyadarshini

A video of Priyadarshini went viral on social media a few days ago where she can be seen engaged in a fight with a cab driver. She can be seen slapping him multiple times at the Kesari Kheda traffic crossing in Lucknow's Krishna Nagar area. The video sparked outrage on social media with netizens demanding her arrest.

According to the police, the incident took place on July 30.

Priyadarshini accused the taxi driver, Saadat Ali Siddiqui, of trying to run her over. Both parties have filed counter complaints against each other.

It is, however, clear that the woman in the viral video is gangster Anuradha Chaudhary and not Priyadarshi. Lucknow woman Priyadarshini was not arrested until the time of filing this copy.

(With inputs from Satyam Mishra in Lucknow)