Were anti-Hindu slogans and banners raised during the ongoing farmers’ agitation near Delhi? An image of a banner with a slogan against Lord Ram has created a controversy on social media, triggering strong reactions from users.

Many Twitter and Facebook users have posted an image of a black banner on which is written in Hindi, “Na Modi, na Yogi, na Jai Shri Ram, desh par raaj karega mazdoor-kisan!! (Not Modi or Yogi or Jai Shri Ram but workers and farmers will rule this country)”.

advertisement

Social media users have said that slogans against PM Modi and CM Yogi are fine, but if it is a farmers’ movement, why were slogans opposing Lord Ram and Hindus used?

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture is two years old. On November 30, 2018, various Left-affiliated farmers’ unions had organised a rally in New Delhi, and this banner was spotted at Jantar Mantar.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

The controversial banner

Using reverse image search, we found that the picture was tweeted by several users in 2019 and 2018.

We narrowed down our search to only 2018 by customising the time in Google image search and found the same banner in a similar photo tweeted by “BloombergQuint” on November 30, 2018. The picture credit was given to news agency ANI.

This tweet also has a web link for “The Quint” article.

As per this news report, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), in collaboration with dozens of farmers’ outfits, had organised a two-day protest rally on November 29-30, 2018, to push for farmers’ demands, including debt relief and remunerative prices for produce.

As per the “BloombergQuint” tweet, the banner with the slogan against Lord Ram was spotted near Jantar Mantar. A closer look reveals it belonged to the Left-affiliated All India Kisan Mahasabha (AIKM).

Zooming in to the picture, we found the same building at the background and the same green bamboo sticks holding the banner; even the side-folds of the banner match with the one in the viral picture.

We found several news reports published around the same time in 2018 when the farmers’ unions attempted to march from Ramlila Maidan to Parliament. The ANI video can be seen here.

Hence, it can be concluded that the viral banner is two years old and has no connection to the ongoing farmers’ agitation near the Delhi border.