After the January 26 tractor rally fiasco in Delhi, police have become cautious so as to avoid further violence by protesting farmers. As per reports, iron spikes and nails have been planted on roads along the Delhi border to stop the entry of tractors.

Amid this, a post circulating on social media claims farmers are preparing tractors with steel wheels and no tyres or tubes to overcome the obstacles. The posts are being shared with pictures of some unique tractors.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that these pictures are all old and unrelated. Most are stock images of vintage tractors randomly picked from websites and not related to the ongoing farmers’ protests.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

With the help of reverse image search, we found the origin of these pictures, and for the sake of convenience, numbered them too.

First picture

This picture of a tractor with metal wheels has been available on the Internet since 2015. A Tumblr user put out this photo in 2015 with the caption, “Modern tractor on steel wheels, pretty much the norm in my area with the old order menonites.”

Second picture

This picture is a screen grab taken from a YouTube video posted by “Small Scale IndustrY Ideas” on July 18, 2019. The title of the video says: Tractor IRON “Cage Wheels” Handmade The Proletariat Workers / Small Scale IndustrY.

This video can also be found on the website “Machinery Extreme”.

Third picture

This is an antique Massy-Harris Model 55 farm tractor found in the stock shots of the website “Dreamstime”.

Fourth picture

This picture of a blue tractor with steel wheels is also available on the Internet since 2013. A video of this tractor can be found in the YouTube channel “Bontrager Entertainment” where the video description says, “Brief history of farming and reason for using steel wheels by the Horse & Buggy Mennonites of New York.”

Fifth picture

This green-coloured steel-wheeled tractor is an antique piece whose wallpaper images are also up for sale on websites such as “Amazon”.

We found about this tractor’s legacy in an American blog which had mention of the 1930s John Deere tractors.

Hence, it can be concluded that the images used in the viral Facebook post claiming that these are steel-wheeled tractors farmers are making to run through iron spikes and nails on Delhi’s roads are false. All these images are old and not related to the ongoing farmers’ agitation.