Following the recently-concluded national executive meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Hyderabad, a video of Minister of Home Affairs Amit Shah has gone viral. The video shows Shah being interviewed by a TV journalist.

Those sharing the video claimed that Shah went silent after the reporter asked him why the Narendra Modi-led Centre did not help Telangana during the floods. In the video, the reporter can be heard asking in Hindi, “Telangana was affected by floods and rains. But no money came from the Centre. Then on what grounds do the leaders from Delhi visit here.”

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA’s investigation found that the video was manipulated to make it look like Shah was left speechless by the question. The original video is from the 2020 municipal elections in Hyderabad. In it, Shah responded to the question.

AFWA Probe

The V6 News logo was visible in the video. So, we searched for Shah's interviews on the official YouTube channel of V6 News and found a longer version of the same interview. This video — that was almost eight hours long — from November 29, 2020, was shot during a road show by Shah ahead of the Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls that year.

The reporter’s questions in the longer video were in reference to comments made by Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao. Around the 4 hours 15 minutes mark in the original video, the reporter can be heard asking, “KCR says there will be communal riots and law and order issues if BJP wins here. What do you have to say about that?”

Following Shah’s response, the reporter’s next question is what has now gone viral out of context. Continuing to quote the CM, the reporter asked, “Telangana was affected by floods and rains. But no money came from the Centre. They are asking on what grounds leaders from Delhi visit here. What do you have to say?”

To this Shah said, “We have contributed the most to Hyderabad. Water enters the houses of over seven lakh people. Where were Owaisi and KCR at that time? It was our people who were there with the public. Also, why did water enter the houses? This is due to encroachment that Owaisi has permitted. If we win the municipal elections, I assure the people that we will remove all encroachments and we’ll make Hyderabad a world-class IT hub.”

In the video, the journalist also asked other questions quoting Rao. Shah responded to all questions. It is thus clear that the viral video has been manipulated to make it look like Shah was left speechless by a reporter’s questions.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal)