A picture of a security official kneeling on the neck of a bleeding boy is going viral on social media with the claim that this was how a Palestinian child was killed by an Israeli soldier. The picture is being shared in the backdrop of the death of African-American George Floyd in the same manner in the United States.

Facebook user "Sabiha Mir" posted the photo with the caption, "An Israeli soldier on the top and an innocent Palestinian child's neck under his kneecap. The Israeli soldier suffocated the child to death while he begging to breathe just like George Floyd did. Unfortunately this is a normal practice by Israeli soldiers in Palestine."

advertisement

(WARNING: This photo shows violent/graphic content)

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the photo to be false. It is a four-year-old incident from the Latin American country of Chile wherein a young boy was arrested for painting graffiti on the walls.

The misleading post is being widely circulated on social media. The archive version can be seen here. Some Hindi websites have also published an article on the viral post, believing it to be true.

AFWA investigation

With the help of InVID tool, we found an article in Spanish regarding the incident. The article, published on October 2, 2016, used a video of the act and said the incident took place in Chile's Valpara­so city.

We also found a video of the incident on Facebook.

(WARNING: Violent/graphic video)

Using some keywords in Spanish, we found another report by Chilean radio station ADN on the incident. This report also says that the video is from Valpara­so and identifies the security official as Chilean police officer F Venegas.

"24 horas", a news website in Chile, also reported the incident in October 2016. As per this report, the cop caught the boy doing graffiti on a wall and detained him.

Looking at the video closely, we noticed a green insignia on the arm of the police officer. This insignia matches with the logo of 'Carabineros de Chile'- Chile's national police force.

All the above evidences prove that the viral photo is from Chile and is not related to the Israel-Palestine conflict. Also, none of the news reports say that the boy died.

Though the viral picture is from Chile, there are several reports of Israeli soldiers detaining Palestinians in a similar manner - by kneeling on the neck. After the death of George Floyd, many activists drew a parallel between US and Israeli forces.