Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest in India, a set of three pictures showing several tractors parked on the roads in long lines has gone viral on social media with the claim that these are visuals from a recent farmers’ demonstration in Berlin. The claim says that on February 14, agitated farmers drove their tractors to Brandenburg Gate, an iconic landmark in the German capital.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral post to be misleading. The pictures are of a farmers’ protest in Berlin that took place in November 2019. However, there have been recent protests by farmers against the government as well.



Many Facebook users have claimed that the pictures were taken recently as farmers marched with their tractors in Berlin. The claim is viral on Twitter as well. The archived version can be seen here (https://archive.vn/FsTWd).

AFWA investigation

Using reverse search, we found all the three pictures in articles related to the farmers’ protest in Berlin on November 26, 2019. The first picture was found in an Independent.ie article, while the second and third were found in reports by German news website The Local and British portal Farmers Weekly. All these reports were published around November 26, 2019.

As per news reports, thousands of farmers had descended on Berlin in their tractors on November 26, 2019, to protest against the German government’s agriculture plans, which they said threatened their livelihood. Some 10,000 farmers and 5,000 tractors from different parts of Germany made their way to Berlin’s Brandenburg Gate.

“The government’s policy package includes plans to limit the use of fertiliser to tackle nitrate pollution in groundwater, and phase out the controversial weedkiller glyphosate by 2023 to protect insect populations,” says ‘The Local’ report. Farmers said the proposed environmental limits are overly restrictive and can affect their farms.

Hence, it can be concluded that the pictures are over a year old and passed off as visuals of recent protests against the German government. However, hundreds of farmers protested last week too against Angela Merkel’s ‘insect protection’ draft law.

Tractor convoys near Brandenburg Gate were seen during this protest too. One such video can be seen here.