Every now and then you may come across news on social media about people seeking financial support to save the lives of their loved ones. Unfortunately, some of these pleas are misleading. Among recent instances, one that went viral shows a man and a woman weeping while holding an unconscious child. The message on the picture reads that the child is suffering from cancer and needs financial aid.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.



India Today Fact Check found that the message attached to the picture is totally false as the child died in August this year due to pneumonia in Bihar’s Siwan district.

Also Read | Fact Check: Obama never said terrorist attacks impossible in India till Modi is PM

The picture is shared by a Facebook user, Manish Jaiswal, in the public group - WE SUPPORT PM MODI - which has more than 22 lakh members. The post has already been shared at least 5,000 times at the time of filing the story.



When we reverse-searched the photo, we found multiple news reports where this image was used. According to them, the child was undergoing treatment at Dinesh Nursing Home in Siwan, where he died in August this year. The reports said that according to the family, the child died due to wrong medication. However, doctors claimed that the child was brought dead at the nursing home.



None of the reports said that the child was suffering from cancer. Here are some of the news reports from bhaskar.com, janjwar.com and z7news.com.



When we contacted Dinesh Kumar Singh, a doctor with the nursing home, he told us that the child died due to pneumonia. He denied the claim that the child was suffering from cancer. Our local correspondent also confirmed the news.



We also tried to contact Manish Jaiswal regarding the post but didn’t receive any response. Jaiswal claims himself to be a businessman from Mumbai but belongs to Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh.



Sensitive and emotional posts like this on social media are often used as click baits as such posts generate huge number of interactions.

Also Read | Fact Check: Don't trust the viral message about no toll charges for 12 hours journey

Also Read | Fact Check: Truth behind this viral picture depicting farm distress