A picture showing prominent politicians including Jawaharlal Nehru, BR Ambedkar and Rajendra Prasad, among others, sharing a meal at a table is viral on social media with captions falsely claiming that it shows the first Iftar party of independent India.

BOOM found that the picture shows the members of the first cabinet of independent India sharing a meal at a luncheon thrown by Vallabbhai Patel to celebrate the appointment of C Rajagopalachari as the first Indian Governor-General.

Also read Video Of Fake 'Pir' Being Busted Is From Pakistan Not India

The viral picture shows prominent politicians sitting around a dining table sharing a meal. A caption with a Facebook post sharing the viral picture reads 'First Iftar party of independent india'.



Click here to view the post.

Several other Facebook pages and Twitter handles shared the picture with similar captions.

Click here to view post.

First iftar party of independent India in 1947 hosted by Indian education Minster Molana Abdul Kalam Azad attended by then Prime Minster of india Jawhar Lal Nehru pic.twitter.com/4Q48wW5dZq — Shahab Zuberi (@zuberishahab) April 15, 2022

Click here for an archived version of the tweet.

Also read Old Video Of Woman Made To Do Sit-Ups Falsely Viral As Khargone

Fact Check

BOOM did a reverse image search on the viral picture and found the same image shared on a Facebook page Dr BR Ambedkar on October 27, 2020.

The caption with the photo reads 'During dinner on the occasion of C. RajaGopalachari's appointment as India's Governor General. (June, 1948)'.

Taking cue, we did a keyword search with 'c rajagopalachari first dinner vallabhbhai patel' and found a different version of the picture on a 2021 tweet from the Twitter handle History of India. The caption with the photo reads 'Jawaharlal Nehru's Cabinet seen at lunch hosted by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel seating next to C. Rajagopalachari who became Governor-General, 1948. Courtesy: Homai Vyarawalla'.

Jawaharlal Nehru's Cabinet seen at lunch hosted by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel seating next to C. Rajagopalachari who became Governor-General, 1948.



Courtesy: Homai Vyarawalla pic.twitter.com/vnsyHPpYSO — History of India (@ArchiveIndia) October 29, 2021

On further searching, we found the same photo uploaded on photo agency Alamy's website with a Marathi caption.

The Marathi caption translates to 'Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar, Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Azad and other ministers present at the dinner invitation given by Vallabhbhai Patel to the Cabinet on the occasion of Chakravarti Rajagopalachari becoming the first Indian Governor-General'.

(Marathi: "मराठी: चक्रवर्ती राजगोपालचारी हे पहिले भारतीय जनरल गव्हर्नर बनण्याचा आनंदात वल्लभभाई पटेलांनी मंत्रीमंडळाला दिलेल्या सहभोजन निमंत्रणाला उपस्थित डॉ. बाबासाहेब आंबेडकर, जवाहरलाल नेहरू, मौलाना आझाद व इतर मंत्री. जून १९४८; June 1948")

Also read Old Al Jazeera Docu Peddled As Arms Training To Children In Madrasas