A viral video of a burqa-clad woman breaking idols of Hindu gods in a store is doing rounds on social media. Several users are claiming that the video is from Kerala.

A Facebook user posted the video with the caption: केरल के इस विडियो को देखें और इसे जितना हो सके उतना फॉरवर्ड करें …. अगर आप यू आज चुप रहते हैं तो हमें नुकसान होगा … क्योंकि *6 महीने के बाद इसे आगे बढ़ाने का कोई फायदा नहीं होगा* … उँगलियाँ घुमाएँ और इसे आगे बढ़ाएँ अभी

(English Translation: Watch this video of Kerala and forward it as much as you can….if u keep quiet today we will be at loss…because after 6 months there will be no use to pursue it… share the video now just from a single tap.)

You can find the video here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the viral video and found the claim to be false.

Running a Google Keyword Search about the video led us to an August 17, 2020, article titled, ‘Bahrain woman charged with insulting Hindu religious symbol’, published by The Times of India.

On reading the article, we found out that the 2020 video is actually from Bahrain. A 54-year-old woman smashed statues of the Hindu god Ganesha inside a souvenir store in the Juffair area of the capital city Manama. She was later summoned by the police and prosecuted for her action. The report was covered by many national and international media houses including The New Indian Express, Gulf News and Morocco World News among others.

The Ministry of Interior, Bahrain, too, tweeted about the video on August 16, 2020, informing that the woman was summoned by the police.

The link mentioned in the tweet led us to the official website of the Ministry of Interior where they issued an official statement on the case.

Searching further, we also found an August 16, 2020 tweet by the advisor to the king of Bahrain, and former foreign minister, Khalid bin Hamad Al Khalifa. The diplomat condemned the actions of the woman and said that it is an intrusive and unacceptable hate crime.

Therefore, based on our investigation, we can conclusively say that the viral video of a burqa-clad woman smashing idols of Hindu gods is being shared with a misleading claim.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news