Protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens have turned violent in many parts of India. Videos and photos of alleged police atrocities are simultaneously doing the rounds on social media.

Amid the turmoil, a viral video shows policemen beating up a man, even as a woman tries to save him. A child is also seen crying. It is being claimed that police in Assam are dragging away people from their homes whose names do not appear in the NRC.

advertisement

Watch here

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral claim to be false. The old video is of police trying to evict illegal settlers in Guwahati’s Amchang Wildlife Sanctuary and has nothing to do with NRC.

Facebook page ABDUL SAMAD posted the video along with a caption in Hindi which translates to, Assam Police are dragging people from their homes whose names do not appear in NRC. If your protest stops today, this will be your condition tomorrow.

Till the filing of this story, the post was shared more than 16,000 times. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

To verify the claim, we searched the watermark of news channel DY365 which appears on the viral video. We found the Facebook page of DY365.

The viral video was uploaded on this page on November 27, 2017, along with the caption, As the second day of eviction drive continues at Amchang Wildlife Sanctuary, an appalling incident took place at Kangkan Nagar. An angry protestor identified as Ismail Haque attacked a forest official with a sharp weapon amid the eviction. Security personnel jumped at him immediately and what followed next is...

We also searched keywords related to the video on Internet and found an article published by The Times of India on November 28, 2017, in which this news was mentioned. According to the report, people living illegally in Amchang Wildlife Sanctuary in Guwahati were being evicted.

Discontent has been brewing in Assam since the NRC exercise left out around 19 lakh names. However, the viral video has nothing to do with NRC.