A video montage containing photos and footage of a group of Indians and foreign nationals chanting Hindu devotional hymns at the Tower Bridge in London was circulated on social media as a recent event organised in the context of the ongoing row over Hanuman Chalisa in Maharashtra.

Many shared the video with captions like, “Hanuman Chalisa recital yesterday on Tower Bridge, London. This need [sic] to be shared with our Courts, Sanjay Raut & MVA Govt. #NavneetRana & #RaviRana have not even recited but arrested from home.”

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Last month, Maharashtra’s MP from Amravati Navneet Rana and her husband Ravi Rana were arrested on charges of sedition, among others, after they announced that they would chant Hanuman Chalisa at Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s private residence Matoshree.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that this video was old and not related to the ongoing Hanuman Chalisa row.

AFWA PROBE

A reverse search of the keyframes of the video led us to the same video uploaded to the Facebook page “Hindus in the UK” in September 2021. Per this post, the video was from a celebration of Shravan month and Krishna Janmashtami at Tower Bridge in London. The event was organised by the International Siddhashram Shakti Center in Harrow, London.

We also found the images seen in the video on the website of Siddhashram Shakti Center.

A Twitter account @gurudevrkp that posts the activities of Shri Rajrajeshwar Guruji, the founder of the International Siddhashram Shakti Center, also shared these images on August 31, 2021. As per the Twitter account, the event seen in the video was held on August 30, 2021.

30 Aug, First time ever Janmashtami celebration with Chalisa and Shiv Abhishek for World Peace and Harmony by HH R Guruji and Asst. Commissioner of City Of London Police- Angela McClaren at unique ceremony at the iconic *Tower Bridge, London. By Int. Siddhashram Shakti Center. pic.twitter.com/0Cvw1dFigu — Guruji (@gurudevrkp) August 31, 2021

The video was also shared by multiple social media users in 2021.

We were thus able to conclude that the video in question was old and not related to the ongoing row over Hanuman Chalisa in Maharashtra.

(With inputs from Adarsh Singh in New Delhi