The image shows the prediction for only second phase of elections. The final opinion poll survey predicted a majority of 205-221 seats for BJP and 144-158 seats for Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh elections.

As the phase one voting for Uttar Pradesh has begun from today (10 February 2022), an image showing TV9 Bharatvarsh opinion poll is widely circulating on social media. According to the users, TV 9 Bharatvarsh’s opinion poll predicts that Samajwadi Party is going to win more seats that BJP as per their survey. The screengrab shows “Samajwadi Party likely to win more seats that BJP- survey” written on it.

Facebook Post

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on YouTube to search for ‘TV9 Bharatvarsh’ opinion poll program. We found that the screengrab was taken from the opinion poll aired by the channel on 7 February 2022. Upon hearing the entire opinion poll, we found that the screengrab talks about the likely outcome in only the second phase of UP assembly elections.

The caption of the video clearly states “Big fight between SP and BJP in the second phase in UP.” TV 9 Bharatvarsh’ opinion poll survey predicted that during the second phase of Uttar Pradesh elections- Samajwadi Party is likely to win more seats that BJP. It does not show the opinion poll for all the phases of the Uttar Pradesh elections.

The description of the video states, “In the second phase in UP, there is a tough competition between SP and BJP. In TV9 India’s opinion poll, Samajwadi Party is likely to get more seats than BJP. However, the survey says that in the third phase in UP, BJP will get more seats than the SP.”

Next, we searched for the complete opinion poll results by TV9 Bharatvarsh that led us to the following video. TV9 Bharatvarsh’s opinion polls predicted a majority of 205-221 seats for BJP and 144-158 seats for Samajwadi Party in the 2022 UP elections. They have also published complete details of their opinion poll survey article on their website on 7 February 2022.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral post to be misleading. The screengrab shows TV9 Bharatvarsh opinion poll prediction for the second phase of Uttar Pradesh elections. The opinion poll survey predicted a majority of 205-221 seats for BJP and 144-158 seats for Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh elections.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)