With the India government making it clear that it will not accept foreign aid for the Kerala floods, the social media went into an overdrive to criticize the Modi administration.

The question that people raised was if UAE could give Rs 700 crore, how can the Centre (till that time) offer a help of only Rs 600 crore to the flood-stricken state? People also argued about New Delhi turning down Abu Dhabi's proposed aid.

advertisement

But now the UAE has stated it never offered Rs 700 crore for the Kerala relief in the first place. So, now people are wondering from where the figure of Rs 700 crore came from.

India Today carried out a fact check.

On Aug 21, the office of the Kerala CM announced in a press statement that "Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed that the United Arab Emirates will provide Kerala an assistance of Rs 700 Crore. Kerala has a special relationship with (the) UAE, which is a home away from home for Malayalees. We express our gratitude to (the) UAE for their support."

The statement expressing gratitude towards the UAE prince was also shared by the CM on this Facebook page the same day.

The chief minister's office tweeted about it as well. In the tweet, the information about Rs 700-crore aid was attributed to the chairman of the Lulu Group, Yusuff Ali.

He is an influential Malayali business tycoon based in Abu Dhabi, whose empire is spread across the Gulf.

The assistance of UAE was first informed to Malayali businessman and philanthropist Yusuff Ali M.A. CMO Kerala (@CMOKerala) August 21, 2018

The news went viral on social media within no time.

And thus began a slander campaign against the Centre for "handing out a raw deal to Kerala by announcing only Rs 600 crore package as against a demand of Rs 2,000 crore by the state government".

Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanked the UAE for the "support" even before the news of Rs 700-crore financial aid was tweeted by the Kerala CM.

But the PM's tweet on Aug 18 did not mention any details of what was offered by Abu Dhabi.

A big thanks to @hhshkmohd for his gracious offer to support people of Kerala during this difficult time. His concern reflects the special ties between governments and people of India and UAE. Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) August 18, 2018

Amidst the raging controversy over the Rs 700-crore figure and India declining it, the UAE Ambassador to India, Ahmed Albanna, told India Today on Friday: "The UAE says no specific amount was offered. An emergency committee has been formed to assess the situation and offer assistance to Kerala."

advertisement

This revelation kicked off a fresh bout of slander campaign on social media, this time against the Kerala CM.

So from where did Pinarayi Vijayan quote Rs 700 crore as aid coming in from the UAE?

His Twitter timeline reveals that he had quoted the chairman of the Lulu Group, Yusuff Ali, as the source of information on Aug 21 itself.

The assistance of UAE was first informed to Malayali businessman and philanthropist Yusuff Ali M.A. CMO Kerala (@CMOKerala) August 21, 2018

But neither the Lulu Group has issued any such statement nor is there any such tweet by them in this regard.

India Today tried reaching out to the company for a response. But its communications officer didn't respond to our phone calls.

An email sent to Ali for a comment on the claim made by Kerala CM is still awaiting response.

That whether the Lulu Group chairman really told the Kerala CM about any UAE plans to give Rs 700 crore for flood relief during their conversation will only be known only after one of them speaks about it publicly.

Till then, there is no other evidence in public domain to prove that Abu Dhabi made any such offer.

advertisement

WATCH | Kerala floods: The tragedy in numbers