Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have been witnessing heavy rainfall for the last couple of days. Till the time of filing this article, nearly 20 people lost their lives in Hyderabad and over 30 in Telangana due to incessant downpour that began on the night of October 13.

Amid this, multiple videos are circulating on social media as recent visuals from Hyderabad and its neighbouring districts. In this article, we will check three such videos.

advertisement

Video 1

A video showing a crocodile being rescued from a waterlogged street is viral on social media with the claim that the video was captured in Hyderabad during the recent spate of torrential rainfall. The caption of one such video says, "Magarmacch // Heavy Rain //Hyderabad //Crocodile // Alert".

Video 2

A video showing rainwater flowing down heavily through the walls of a fort is viral with the claim that it is the historic Bhongir fort - a weekend getaway for Hyderabadis in neighbouring Bhuvanagiri district. The caption reads, "Historic Bhongir fort near #Hyderabad #HyderabadRains".

Video 3

Another video where people and two-wheelers are seen pulled away by floodwaters is also viral with the claim that it is a recent scene from Hyderabad.

The caption says, "#HyderabadRains Its painful to see what few days of rain can do to the city .. illegal encroachments, poor infrastructure, pathetic drainage system is making the city sink. Worst we have all sorts of schemes from Govt to regularise illegal work.. guess money matters most !"

#HyderabadRains



Its painful to see what few days of rain can do to the city .. illegal encroachments, poor infrastructure, pathetic drainage system is making the city sink.



Worst we have all sorts of schemes from Govt to regularise illegal work.. guess money matters most ! pic.twitter.com/6aMtKizNcr — ProNaMo (@ProNaMoSeva) October 13, 2020

AFWA probe

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found all three claims to be misleading. The first video purportedly showing a crocodile on a street in Hyderabad is one year old, and was shot in Gujarat's Vadodara during the 2019 floods.

The second video of the waterfall is from Zaffergadh fort in Jangaon district of Telangana and not Bhongir fort. The video is at least one month old. The third video showing people getting pulled away in floodwater is from the 2019 Hyderabad rains.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here, here, here, here, here and here.

Let us now individually fact-check the three videos.

Video 1: Crocodile in a waterlogged street

Using InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found a longer version of the same video carried by a YouTube channel called "Gujarat News Live19" on August 4 last year. The title of the video in Gujarati translates to, "Due to heavy rains in Vadodara city, crocodiles were seen flooding the city".

advertisement

NDTV carried a similar video on August 3, 2019, the title of which reads, "Chilling Crocodile Rescue From Flooded Street In Gujarat".

The video description says: Battered by heavy rain, Gujarat's Vadodara saw a dramatic "rescue" on this week - not of humans or pets caught left stranded by rising water levels, but that of a crocodile Overflowing rivers brought crocodiles out on streets, creating a frightening situation for residents.

We also found reports by news agency ANI and India TV that the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescued a crocodile from Vadsar area of Vadodara on August 3, 2019.

We can find the man with grey cap and brown t-shirt in both the longer version of the viral video and rescue images shared by ANI and India TV.

Hyderabad Police, through its official Twitter handle, also confirmed that the video is not from the city.

In 2019, the same video went viral as visuals from Karachi, Pakistan, and "Factly" did a fact-check then.

advertisement

Video 2: The fort

Using InVID and appropriate keywords, we found the same video uploaded on Facebook last month. The caption says, "Zaffergadh Fort Hill..."

We also found the same video tweeted by "The New Indian Express" Warangal correspondent U Mahesh, confirming that the video is of Zaffergadh fort and not Bhongir fort.

Clarifying the confusion over the location of the video, Mahesh tweeted, "This is not at #Bhongirfort. This video was shot at Zaffergadh hill, #Jangaon. And it was shot in August -2020, not in the past a few days. Don't rush to #Bhongir to watch the spectacle".

This is not at #Bhongirfort. This video was shot at Zaffergadh hill, #Jangaon. And it was shot in August -2020 , not in the past a few days. Don't rush to #Bhongir to watch the spectacle pic.twitter.com/0eoHqu4cu5 — Mahesh_TNIE (@maheemahesh25) October 13, 2020

AFWA reached out to Mahesh who confirmed that the video must have been shot when it rained in Zaffergadh in August or September.

"What we see in the viral video is a common phenomenon in Zaffergadh fort whenever it rains heavily. A similar situation in Bhongir fort can be dangerous as it is surrounded by residential buildings and a bus stand. But Zaffergadh fort is surrounded by an open field and rainwater can easily drain down." he said.

advertisement

"Also, the viral video is in circulation for more than a month. It rained in Zaffergadh in August and September. So, it might have been shot during that time," Mahesh added.

We also contacted the district collector of Bhuvanagiri, where Bhongir fort is located. Anitha Ramachandram, the collector, told AFWA, "The viral video is not of Bhongir fort; it did not flood like that. Bhongir received heavy rainfall on October 13. But by October 14, it subsided."

Video 3: People pulled away by floodwaters

When we did a reverse search of individual keyframes of the video, we found many news reports from September last year that carried a similar video.

The video description in Telugu translates to, "Several vehicles were washed away in the floods at Mozamjahi Market in Osmangunj area. Several people were also washed away."

We also found other Telugu news reports confirming that there were heavy floods in Hyderabad's Osmangunj area during the September 2019 rains.