More than 70 lakh people have been affected due to the devastating floods in Assam that have inundated 24 out of the state's 33 districts. Thousands have been rendered homeless and over 80 people have lost their lives, and coupled with the Covid-19 pandemic, Assam is staring at a humanitarian crisis.

Amid this, a Facebook post on the floods, with a collage of six images, has gone viral. Of the six images, three depict women in distress, and the rest show damage caused by floods. At the end of the post, the user asks for donations for relief operations. The link mentioned in the post opens up to the website of "Milaap" crowd-funding.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that only one picture used in the viral claim is related to the present Assam floods.

The Facebook post by "Lautaro" has garnered more than 7,200 shares. The same collage has been used by other Facebook users too. The archived versions can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

We have numbered each picture for easy identification.

Image 1

This image is three years old. News website "Scroll.in" had published this image on July 13, 2017, in a report on the Assam floods that year. Kiren Rijiju, then minister of state for Home affairs, had made an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas of Assam.

Image 2

This picture of a damaged bridge is the only one in the viral collage to be related to the present floods. This picture is from Tinsukia district of Assam.

Image 3

This image of women crying is almost three years old. It was published in The Indian Express on November 27, 2017, with the headline, "400 families evicted from Amchang wildlife sanctuary in Guwahati".

This picture was originally taken by news agency Reuters. The caption of the photo says, "Women cry after police demolished their huts which forest officials claimed were illegally built at the Amchang Wildlife Sanctuary in Guwahati".

Image 4

This image of some women wiping their tears is from 2012. It was published as part of a photo feature in the news website Firstpost on Bodo and Muslim refugees in relief camps of Assam.

This particular photo was taken by Associated Press. The caption reads, "Ethnic Bodo women who are victims of ethnic violence cry at a relief camp at Bhot Gaon village in Kokrajhar".

Image 5

This image of a woman crying, standing in floodwaters, is nearly 11 years old and from Andhra Pradesh. This was also part of a photo feature in NDTV, published on October 2, 2009.

The picture caption reads, "A woman cries after failing to enter her submerged house at Garlapadu village, about 180 kilometers (112 miles) away from Hyderabad, India, Sunday, Oct. 4, 2009. Medical teams were being rushed Sunday to flood-devastated southern India where scores of people have died after five days of unceasing torrential rains, authorities said. (AP Photo)"

advertisement

Image 6

This image of houses submerged in floodwater is from last year. This PTI photo from Assam's Morigaon district was published by The New Indian Express on August 2, 2019.

The flood situation in Assam is nothing less than a disaster. But the viral collage of six images claiming to show the reality in Assam is misleading in the sense that only one of the images is of the current flood crisis in the state.