Wrestler Ravi Dahiya clinched a silver medal for India after beating several opponents in a row in the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. On social media, a video of a man congratulating an Indian wrestler by lifting and throwing him on the stage is being shared as a celebration by Dahiya and his coach.

“This is how Dahiya's coach celebrated their victory #Olympicsindia #Cheer4India #RaviDahiya Many Congratulations #Wrestling #Olympicsindia #TokyoOlympics2020,” says the caption.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Old video of ‘Rajasthan don’ Anuradha Chaudhary circulated as Lucknow girl’s arrest

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is around three years old and shows wrestler Bajrang Punia’s coach Shako Bentinidis congratulating him after his victory in the semifinal of the ‘World Wrestling Championships’.

AFWA probe

An incomplete term “pest 2018” can be seen printed on the floor of the wrestling ring. This gave us a clue that the video is probably from 2018, while “pest” could be “Budapest”.

Using these clues, we conducted a keyword search that led us to the semifinal video of the 2018 ‘World Wrestling Championships’ in which Punia had defeated Cuban wrestler Alejandro Enrique Valdes Tobier.

The 8-minute-3-second video was posted on the official YouTube channel of ‘United World Wrestling’ on October 21, 2018. The 13-second viral portion can be seen here at the 7:40 mark. A comparison between visuals from the viral video and the original clipping can be seen below.

Punia’s coach Bentinidis had also posted some stills from the viral video on Instagram in October 2018.

As per the official website United World Wrestling, the World Wrestling Championships was held in Budapest, Hungary, from October 20-28, 2018. Punia’s victory in the semifinal of this championship was covered widely by the media.



ALSO READ | Fact Check: Image of Param Vir Chakra falsely shared as Khel Ratna award

Punia is a freestyle wrestler from Haryana who bagged a bronze medal in the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. His coach Bentinidis is from Georgia.

Ravi Dahiya, on the other hand, is also a freestyle wrestler from Haryana. He won a silver medal at the Tokyo Olympics in the 57kg category. Dahiya’s coach is Satpal Singh, a 2015 Padma Bhushan awardee.

advertisement

Both Punia and Dahiya have posted several pictures of their coaches on their respective Instagram accounts. We compared two such pictures with a still image of the coach in the viral video. It is quite clear from this comparison that the coach in the viral video is Bentinidis.

Evidently, a video of Punia’s victory at the semis of the 2018 World Wrestling Championships is being falsely linked to one of Dahiya’s recent winning bouts at the Olympics.