Train services in Mumbai resumed for the general public after 10 months on February 1. Suburban train operations, the lifeline of Mumbai, were suspended on March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic, and had resumed for certain groups since July 15, 2020.

In this context, a 20-second clip of a railway station tightly packed with commuters is circulating on social media with the claim that this is the scene from Mumbai’s Borivali station after train services commenced for the general public.

advertisement

The caption along with one such video uploaded on Facebook says, “First day after covid Suburban train services open for all commuters....A scene from Borivali today...”

While the resumption of train services comes as a much-needed relief for Mumbaikars, this video has created panic among netizens because Mumbai has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases in January 2021 in comparison to December 2020.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This clip is at least five years old. The Western Railway has confirmed that the present situation at Borivali station is not similar to the visuals being circulated. On February 1, around 12.4 lakh commuters used Western Railway, under which Borivali falls, while on an average, 35 lakh people travel every day.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, her e and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found the same video uploaded on a YouTube channel on March 12, 2016. “Amazing mumbai local crowd,” reads the headline of the video.

The video was also shared in December 2020 and January 2021, which makes it clear that it is old and not related to the February 1 reopening of Mumbai local trains.

For better clarity on the matter, India Today reached out to Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer of Western Railway, who confirmed to us that the situation at Borivali station is not similar to the video in question.

“Around 12.4 lakh people travelled on February 1 by Western Railway on which Borivali is located, while on an average, 35 lakh people used to travel through this route every day. This is an old video that is being used by social media users with false claims,” Thakur said.

We also found a tweet from the official handle of Western Railway, Mumbai Central Division, confirming that security forces are deployed at Mumbai’s suburban sections to regulate the crowd, and no large crowd was reported from any of the sections.

advertisement The video seems to be a fake one, as local trains resumed for general public only on yesterday after almost 10 months. Sufficient uniformed staff are deployed at stations to regulate the crowd. No such instance of crowd congregation has been reported from across suburban section.— Sr.DSC/MUMBAI/W.R. (@rpfwrbct) February 2, 2021

At present, the general public is not allowed to travel by local trains between 7 am and 12 noon and between 4 pm and 9 pm, which are considered peak travel hours. A glimpse of Borivali station on February 1 uploaded by the verified Twitter handle of “Free Press Journal” can be seen below.

Back to normal? A glimpse of commuters in Borivali, as Mumbai reopens local trains for the general public after more than 10 months#MumbaiLocalTrains #Mumbaikar #MumbaiLocal @WesternRly pic.twitter.com/kl6DX4Vv0K— Free Press Journal (@fpjindia) February 1, 2021

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is at least five years old and not related to the resumption of local trains in Mumbai.

(With inputs from Vidya in Mumbai)