All the four men arrested in the Hyderabad veterinary’s rape and murder were gunned down by police on December 6. Following the alleged encounter, a collage of the four accused started going viral on social media, claiming that their names are Mohammad Pasha, Mohammad Iqbal, Mohammad Rahim and Mohammad Akram.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room has found that the viral post is false. The four accused were named Mohammad Areef, Jollu Shiva, Jollu Naveen and Chintakunta Chennakeshavulu.

advertisement

(Picture courtesy - Times of India)

Many Facebook users are sharing the viral post with hate messages.

The post is also viral on Twitter.

AFWA probe

We found a report by The Quint where its correspondent spoke to family members of all the four accused. This report has identified the accused as Mohammad Areef, Jollu Shiva, Jollu Naveen and Chintakunta Chennakeshavulu.

Cyberabad police, in a tweet, also confirmed that the accused do not belong to the same religion. It said one of the accused was a Muslim and the other three were Hindus. It asked people not to give religious colour to crime and warned that spreading rumours is a punishable offence.

It is false information. All the accused not belongs to one religion. One is Muslim and remaining 3 are Hindus. It is a heinous crime and we are working hard to ensure capital punishment to all the accused. Please don’t give religious colour to the crime. 1/2 Cyberabad Police (@cyberabadpolice) December 5, 2019

Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar had also confirmed the real names of the accused as Mohammad Areef, Jollu Shiva, Jollu Naveen and Chintakunta Chennakeshavulu in a press conference.

#WATCH Telangana Police briefs the media on today's encounter https://t.co/wMljp3hapb ANI (@ANI) December 6, 2019

Since the rape and murder of the 26-year-old veterinary in Hyderabad following which her charred body was recovered, leading to national outrage, various misleading posts have been doing the rounds on social media.

Fact-check websites Alt News and Boom Live have debunked many such claims.