A video is going viral on social media platforms showing some people raising pro-Congress, pro-Khalistan and anti-India slogans, while a Congress poster can be seen on a wall. Many social media users have shared this video with the claim that Khalistan supporters reached Rahul Gandhi’s event in London to support Congress party.

A Facebook user shared the video with the caption in Hindi that translates to: “How can I hand over my country to Congress, you tell… Khalistani terrorists reached Rahul Gandhi’s meeting in London… Raised slogans of Congress Party zindabad and Hindustan murdabad… Send to all the groups you have.”

(Original: कैसे सौंप दु मै काँग्रेस को अपना देश,आप ही बताओ… लंदन मे राहुल गांधी की सभा मे पहुचे खलीस्थानी आतकंवादी… काँग्रेस पार्टी जिंदाबाद और हिंदुस्थान मुर्दाबाद नारे लगाये…आपके पास जितने भी ग्रुप है सब मे भेजो)

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the viral video, and found it to be shared with a false claim.

On performing keyword searches, we found a report published on the Indian Express website on August 26, 2018. The headline of the article reads: “Khalistan supporters attempt to disrupt Rahul Gandhi’s event in London”

As per the report, three pro-Khalistan supporters tried to disrupt his public event on August 26, 2018. It stated that the activists managed to enter the event where Gandhi was to deliver the inaugural address at the Indian Overseas Congress UK Mega Conference, and started shouting “Khalistan zindabad”. The audience then began to counter-chant “Congress party zindabad” in reaction to the attempted disruption. The Khalistan supports were later ushered outside by Scotland Yard officers following a minor scuffle.

“The protesters — three men and a woman — were escorted out of the hotel by the police on Saturday night. They later told TOI that it was a protest against Gandhi’s Friday’s remarks on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. According to the report, the incident was seen as a major security breach.”

We also found the same news uploaded on WION YouTube channel, on August 27, 2018.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the video is being shared with a false claim.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9