Ever since the government announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, there has been speculation about it being extended further. Some social media users have been sharing images of India Today and Aaj Tak news channels running claims that the prime minister has announced the extension of lockdown.

The images being shared are manipulated.

Neither has the prime minister made any such announcement nor have India Today or Aaj Tak broadcast any such news reports.

advertisement

The claim

Facebook user 'Jo Moh' uploaded an image with the caption: "Ops this lockdown till the end of May 4.. extend hogya re lockdown." The photo uploaded with the post was an image of purported TV news channel broadcast. The image had the logo of India Today. In the image, there is a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The picture is accompanied by this text: 'All India Lockdown increased till 4th May.' A similar message is seen written near the bottom of the image. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The Truth

The photo being shared is morphed. The image seen in the post is from the day India Today broadcast Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address in which he announced the lockdown. The text in the original image has been replaced with incorrect messages about the lockdown being extended. The difference in fonts between the two images is easily discernible.

Since PM Modi's address to the nation on March 24, he has not addressed the country again. India Today news channel has at no point carried any news report claiming that the lockdown was being extended. In fact, on the website there are articles about the government clarifying that there are no plans right now to extend the lockdown.

Another similar photo has been going viral on WhatsApp. This image is a collage of four photos and carries the Aaj Tak news channel's logo. Out of the four photos, one image carries the claim that areas with no positive coronavirus cases will be brought out of the lockdown. Another image claims that the lockdown will be lifted from April 5. The third image claims that lockdown will be lifted in Rewari, Narnaul, Mahendragadh, Dadri, Bhiwani and Bahal areas of Haryana. The last image displays a claim that shoot at sight orders have been issued in Gurgaon and Faridabad areas near national capital Delhi to crack down on lockdown violators.

The images are accompanied by 'Breaking News' text in English. The 'Breaking News' format seen in the images is not being used by Aaj Tak currently. The format was changed some time ago. The images in the viral WhatsApp forward are prepared using a software.

Conclusion

The lockdown is neither being withdrawn right now nor are there any reports of it being extended. The viral photographs carrying Aaj Tak and India Today logos and carrying such claims are fake.