Was Rahul Gandhi not able to answer a simple question about Kailash- Mansarovar even when he returned from the pilgrimage just recently?

BJP IT Cell chief Amit Malviya attacked Congress president Rahul Gandhi for going blank when asked about his Kailash Mansarovar experience. Malviya tweeted a small video clip and accused the Congress president of not being able to answer properly the question related to his Mansarovar yatra.

advertisement Rahul Gandhi goes blank when asked about his experience at Kailash Mansarovar.

Don’t miss the Narendra Modi chants in the background! pic.twitter.com/7dprdNKtgh Amit Malviya (@amitmalviya) September 17, 2018



Along with Amit Malviya, Mahesh Vikram Hegde, founder of propaganda website Postcard news, tweeted that "Rahul couldn't even open his mouth when asked about Kailash Yatra"

Lady questions RaGa in

Bhopal rally:



Rahul ji, Karyakarthas want to know ur Kailash Yatra experience



Hearing this, RaGa got stunned that he didn't even open his mouth



Tired of waiting, ppl in rally started shouting



MODI ZINDABAD!



This proves RaGa didn't attend Kailash Yatra pic.twitter.com/U8H81Jr6BR Mahesh Vikram Hegde (@mvmeet) September 17, 2018

We found that the clip being circulated to mock Rahul Gandhi is a sliced-out portion from a longer video footage. The footage is from Rahul Gandhi's function in Bhopal on 17th September where he was addressing Congress workers. If one watches the full video, Rahul can be heard sharing his experience after a brief silence followed by fumbling for a while. He looks quite confused in the video, probably because of the commotion in the background.



India Today Fact Check team found the complete video on Rahul's YouTube channel

He can be seen describing his experience, though briefly. Rahul said, "Jo Kailash parvat hai aur jo Mansarovar hai agar vykati vahan chala jata hai toh ek prakaar se vapis aane pe sabkuch badal jata hai, soch badal jati hai aur ek gehrai si aa jati hai (When a man returns from Kailash Manasarovar yatra, there is a complete transformation. The thought process becomes more deep)."

Rahul had undertaken the Kailash Mansarovar yatra earlier this month. During his yatra, Rahul was the target of many controversies. In one of such, BJP MP Giriraj Singh had accused the Congress president of tweeting photoshopped images of the yatra. However, Singh's claim was debunked by India Today Fact Check team.

If you have got a message that looks suspicious and you want us to find out the truth, please share it on - factcheck@intoday.com

Also Read | Fact Check: The mystery behind 40-lakh omissions in Assam's NRC

Watch | Rahul Gandhi interacts with pilgrims at Kailash Mansarovar Yatra