Spread the truth:

Claim: The Indian National Congress party shared a video on its social media handles where a man can be seen eating leftovers thrown on a railway track. This video was uploaded to highlight how migrants are suffering under the rule of The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The tweet had another video for comparison which showed Congress workers providing food to the needy.

Both the videos have different captions on it. While the video of a man eating leftovers from the railway track is shared with a Hindi caption “भाजपा: गरीबों को दाने दाने के लिए तरसाती है”

Translation: ‘BJP: Makes poor people yearn for single grain of food’

Another video of Congress workers providing food to the needy has been shared with the Hindi caption “ ग्रेस: गरीबों को खाना खिलाती है”

Translation: ‘Congress: Feeds the poor’

Even though the video of Congress feeding the poor is a recent video, the man eating from tracks is an old video from 2019.

TWITTER

The INC’s tweet read, “फर्क- मानवता का। भाजपा ने कोरोना संकट के दौरान खाने के लिए तरसते गरीब देशवासियों से मुँह मोड़ लिया, जबकि कांग्रेस ने संकट की इस घड़ी में देशवासियों के लिए अपने कार्यालयों को “रसोई” बना दिया।“

Translation: ‘Difference of Humanity. BJP turned its back on poor countrymen yearning for food during Corona crisis but Congress converted its headquarters into kitchens for countrymen during these trying times.’

The tweet has been archive here.

The tweet was soon retweeted by the other Twitter users.

FACEBOOK

The official page of INC also shared the same post on Facebook with the same caption.

The post has been archived here.

People soon started sharing it here as well.

TRUTH

The video which claimed to show a migrant worker’s state in this period of lockdown is actually a video from August 2019 when there was no lockdown or corona virus pandemic. The same video is uploaded on YouTube Channel by O.M.G Page 2 on 21st August 2019 with the caption that read, “Please don’t waste your food. Really heart touching.”

The collage given below shows the comparison between the videos. The first image is from the video uploaded in 2019 and the second one shows the video uploaded by INC. Hence, it is misleading.

However, the other video claiming to be Congress workers helping people with food is a recent video. It happened in Delhi and was been uploaded on wire agency ANI’s YouTube channel on March 31, 2020. The description with the video reads ‘New Delhi, Mar 31 (ANI): Congress workers started a kitchen to feed needy in Delhi amid coronavirus outbreak. All necessary precautions were taken by the workers during the food distribution process. Congress workers made sure social distance was maintained among people while collecting food. The weaker section of society is facing major hardships during nationwide lockdown’.

The collage below shows that the Congress videos are the same and used correctly.

Hence, the video of a man eating from the leftover food from the railway tracks shared as a recent video is false, it is an old video and not related to the coronavirus pandemic.

Related