Heavy rainfall lashed Delhi on Saturday and the Safdarjung observatory recorded a total of 1,100 mm of rainfall this monsoon season in the national capital.

Due to the heavy rainfall, many parts of Delhi, including Indira Gandhi International Airport, faced a flood-like situation. Amid this, a picture of people pushing an aircraft is viral with the claim that, due to waterlogging, the passengers are pushing an aircraft at Delhi airport.

advertisement

A Twitter user posted this picture with the caption, "Delhi IGI Airport waterlogged due to heavy thunderstorm in the National Capital. #DelhiRains #DelhiAirport"

Another social media user wrote, "#DelhiRains Passengers showing Delhi spirit at #DelhiAirport".

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AWFA) found that the viral picture is not from Delhi airport. This picture dates back to 2007 and was clicked at Yantai Airport in Shandong Province, China, where the airport workers were pushing a Shandong Airlines aircraft.

AWFA PROBE

With the help of reverse image search, we found the viral photo in a news report dating back to August 14, 2007.

The report stated that the picture was taken at the Yantai Airport in Shandong Province, China. The image shows airport workers pushing Shandong Bombardier CRJ 200 away from the flooded runway.

According to a Chinese news report, we found that in 2007, several flights were delayed due to the flood at Yantai Airport's runway. More than 20 staff members pushed the plane to a safe area.

Some other reports of waterlogging at the airport can be found here, here and here.

We also searched for some visuals of waterlogging in Delhi and found a video of waterlogged terminal at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. In the video, we can clearly see waterlogging at the airport runway amid heavy rain.

#WATCH | Parts of Delhi Airport waterlogged following heavy rainfall in the national capital; visuals from Indira Gandhi International Airport (Terminal 3) pic.twitter.com/DIfUn8tMei — ANI (@ANI) September 11, 2021

WATCH | Several areas, including the Delhi airport, were waterlogged following heavy showers.



Videos doing rounds on social media show aircraft on ground at the partially flooded airport. pic.twitter.com/PNHI1ynuVe — Hindustan Times (@htTweets) September 11, 2021

Though it is true that Delhi is witnessing heavy rainfall and waterlogging, but the viral picture is not from Delhi's IGI Airport. The fourteen-year-old picture is of Yantai Airport in China.

(Inputs by Sonali Khatta)