Soon after the deadly ambush by Maoists on security personnel in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur district on Saturday, an apparent newspaper clipping went viral with the claim that a BJP leader was arrested in connection with the incident.

Several Facebook users posted the purported screenshot with an image of soldiers carrying a coffin and a Hindi headline saying, "24 martyred, 31 injured in Naxal attack in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur".

advertisement

Apart from details about the ambush, the image has a smaller headlined encircled in red which says two people, including a BJP leader, were arrested. Netizens are sharing the picture with the caption, "BJP's Naxal connection".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is a morphed page layout of "enavabharat.com". Two people, including a local BJP leader, were arrested in Chhattisgarh last year for aiding Maoists. The incident has no connection to the recent ambush in Bijapur where over 20 jawans lost their lives.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

WHAT AFWA FOUND

The screenshot of the newspaper clipping has recent news about the Bijapur Maoist attack that took place on April 3. The picture of soldiers carrying a coffin of a martyred colleague was tweeted by news agency ANI the following day.

Since the lead news is attributed to "Navabharat News Network", we looked for recent editions of "enavabharat.com" and found that the original page of the e-paper published on April 5 has a similar layout.

ORIGINAL PAGE

VIRAL IMAGE

The news of the arrest of two men in Chhattisgarh, including the son of a former BJP MLA, as seen in the viral image, is an old incident that was reported by several news websites last year.

As per these reports, a local BJP leader and another person were arrested in Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh on charges of aiding Maoists. The accused, Jagat Pujari and Ramesh Usendi, were arrested after they procured a tractor to allegedly deliver it to a Maoist leader. Pujari was the vice-president of BJP's Dantewada unit and also the son of former BJP MLA Dhaniram Pujari.

Till the time this story was published, no political connection had been established in the Bijapur ambush. Hence, it is confirmed that a morphed image of a newspaper clipping is being circulated to falsely claim a BJP link to the ghastly attack.