In the original video, Rahul Gandhi thanks the crowd for taking the trouble to come from far off places. This part has been cropped out from the viral video.

A video showing Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attending a rally and thanking people for bearing difficulties due to heavy rainfall is widely circulating on social media. Social media users are sharing this video sarcastically taking a dig at Rahul Gandhi claiming that Gandhi is grateful and thanking his supporters that they had to face problems due to unfavourable weather to attend his rally. Some users have also claimed that this video is from Rahul Gandhi’s rally in Manipur.

In the video Rahul Gandhi says, “Aaj baarish thi, aapko kasht bhi huwa hoga, iske liye bohot bohot dhanyawad.” (It rained today and you have faced trouble. Thank you for this.)

Users are sharing this video to mock Rahul Gandhi by claiming he is troubling people and then foolishly thanking them for bearing those troubles.

Facebook Post | Archive Link | Facebook Post

https://twitter.com/Wake_Up_Mitron/status/1495706742835105795

This video is widely circulating on Facebook.

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a relevant keyword search on YouTube; the results led us to the live-streamed video of Rahul Gandhi on his channel. This video was streamed on 21 February stating that this video shows a public meeting at Hapta Kangjeibung, Imphal, Manipur.

Upon hearing the video, we understood that the viral video clip has been cropped out from the original speech.

In the original speech by Rahul Gandhi can be heard saying, “You have come here from far off places, from my heart I want to thank you all, today there was rain, you all faced difficulties, thank you for this. Namaskar, Jai Hind,” in the 1.04.40 minutes timestamp. With this, he ends his speech.

Thus, after hearing the video we can understand that Rahul Gandhi thanks the crowd for taking the trouble to come from far off places has been cropped out from the original video and the viral video is falsely being shared to imply that he is thanking supporters for their ‘suffering’.

Rahul Gandhi also streamed this video live on his Twitter account.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video on social media to be False. The viral video is a clipped version of the original video is falsely being shared to mock Rahul Gandhi after his speech in Manipur.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)