Is this the much-awaited first look of the under-construction Ram Temple? Well, if two viral images of an under-construction facade on social media are to be believed they are the first pictures of the grand Ram Temple being constructed in Ayodhya.

Multiple Facebook pages have posted these images with a Hindi caption, that translates as “This is the first picture of Lord Ram’s temple construction at Ayodhya. Brothers, who feel happy seeing this picture, just say “Jai Shree Ram” once with a pure heart”.

advertisement

Several other users have posted the same pictures on Facebook with similar claims.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the viral claim to be misleading. The viral pictures are not of the under-construction Ram mandir but of the main complex of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple which is under construction in Varanasi as part of the Kashi Vishwanath (KV) corridor project.

The archived versions of the Facebook posts are saved here, here a nd here.

Truth behind the viral picture

With the help of reverse image search, we found a Hindustan Times a rticle published on October 30, this year. The same picture is published here with the caption that reads, “The main complex of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple under construction.” The courtesy of the photo is given to Hindustan Times.

A close comparison between the original and the viral pictures confirm that they are the same pictures.

The original picture

The viral picture

These two viral images were also published on another news website, called “News Tree”.

Kashi Vishwanath (KV) corridor project

According to these media reports, the viral images are part of the ambitious Kashi Vishwanath (KV) corridor project in Varanasi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on March 8, 2019, laid the foundation of the project worth over Rs 1,000 crore. It is being developed on an area of 5 lakh sq ft and is scheduled to be completed by August 2021. The project is aimed at the expansion and beautification of the Kashi Vishwanath temple and will ensure visibility of the temple directly from the ghat.

Status of Ram Temple in Ayodhya

As per the latest news reports, the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya is still at the discussion level. A meeting was held at Faizabad's Circuit House on Friday (October 30) presided by Ram Mandir Construction Committee chairman and attended by engineers and experts. The committee is taking experts’ opinions regarding the construction of the temple.

advertisement

As per the news report, Nripendra Mishra, the chairman of the committee said that they are waiting for a report from IIT Chennai regarding the strength of three in the foundation of the Ram temple.

Conclusion

Hence, it is clear that the viral pictures are not the images of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. These are photos from the Kashi Vishwanath (KV) corridor project in Varanasi.