A throwback picture of retired IPS officer Kiran Bedi, along with former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, has gone viral. Several Facebook pages and users have used it as a political weapon to hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Pages such as "IT & Social Media Cell Congress" and others have claimed that although Bedi towed the then PM's car by a crane, this picture shows, soon after the incident, that Gandhi admired the IPS officer and invited her for lunch at her residence. These posts compared the incident with the recent suspension of an IAS officer in Odisha's Sambhalpur for reportedly checking Modi's helicopter.

advertisement

India Today's Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) found the post to be misleading. The viral picture has no relation with the towing incident. And also Bedi, personally never towed former Gandhi's car by a crane.

Nearly a thousand people have shared the post at the time of writing this story. The "IT & Social Media Cell Congress" page is followed by more than four lakh people.

Another Facebook user, "Samuel George", also posted the same black and white picture and wrote, "Rare to find leaders like Indira Gandhi. When Kiran Bedi booked a challan on PM's vehicle for wrong parking, Indira ji invited her for lunch personally at PMO to honor her fearless commitment towards duty."

More than 1,200 users shared this post on Facebook. There are several others who have posted the same claim on Facebook.

A simple Yandex reverse search revealed the original tweet of Kiran Bedi, the current Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry. She posted it on November 19, 2017. Besides details about her closeness with Gandhi, she mentioned that this picture was taken on January, 1975. In the caption she wrote, "Invited to breakfast with Prime Minister Indira Gandhi after leading the Republic Day Parade."

It was a rare privilege being with

Mrs Indira Gandhi.

I was very fond of her.

She too was very proud of my having joined the IPS.

She used invite me to her functions and introduce me as India's first woman in the officer ranks of IPS..

This pic is of Jan 1975 at her residence. pic.twitter.com/X4Z02NfVfK Kiran Bedi (@thekiranbedi) November 19, 2017





We searched for the much-talked-about incident of "Kiran Bedi towing Indira Gandhi's car" and came across one article filed by NDTV in 2015. The article has a small chunk of Bedi's interview with journalist Barkha Dutt from the show "The Delhi Town hall".

When Bedi was specifically asked about the "car towing" incident, she replied categorically that she did not tow away Gandhi's wrongly-parked car. According to this report, in 1982, an ambassador car that belonged to Gandhi's office was parked at the wrong spot and it was towed away by sub-inspector Nirmal Singh.

advertisement

But she accepted the fact that as DCP (Deputy Commissioner of Police), she protected the junior officer and confirmed that he was not punished for doing his duty.

The viral image in question was taken on 1975, and the "car towing" incident happened must later, in 1982. So the picture has no relation with the incident.

But was Bedi rewarded after the "towing" incident? Contrary to general perception and the viral claim, Bedi opened up in NDTV's interview and claimed that she was transferred and given a punishment posting to Goa from Delhi seven months after Gandhi's car was towed away by Delhi Police.

Also Read | Fact Check: Viral post claiming Prime Minister Narendra Modi used abusive word in Gujarati is totally false

Also Read | Fact Check: Mehbooba Mufti, senior journalists are wrong on Sadhvi Pragya's age