Qatar has been a trending issue on social media of late. While many Muslim-majority nations have taken a stand against controversial remarks made by now-suspended BJP national spokesperson Nupur Sharma, supporters of the ruling party have taken particular umbrage at Qatar.

Amid thousands of tweets calling out the country’s supposed hypocrisy on “blasphemy” and calls to boycott Qatar Airways, one odd post stuck out. It was a screenshot of an alleged report about a Qatari man who purportedly sealed his wife’s genitals with glue to punish her.

advertisement

The headline in the screenshot read: “Qatar: Jealous husband seals wife’s vagina with crazy glue.”

Through this screenshot, people are taking a dig at Qatar and its residents. A Twitter user shared this photo with the caption, “Just halal things next door”.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that this story was from a satirical news website. It wasn’t a real news report.

AFWA Probe

Upon close inspection of the screenshot, we noticed “worldnewsdailyreport.com” written at the bottom. Subsequently, we searched for the story on the website and found it.

The report said a 33-year-old man confessed before a court that he glued his wife’s genitals shut alleging she had adulterous ideas because she liked a post of his 12-year-old cousin on Facebook and also uploaded a selfie. The judge sentenced the wife to 100 lashes and fined the man 40 riyals or USD 10.

It is noteworthy that the website’s tagline reads, “Where facts don’t matter.”

The website’s ‘About’ section claims that it is an “American Jewish Zionist newspaper based in Tel Aviv and dedicated on covering biblical archaeology news and other mysteries around the Globe,” adding its staff includes “retired Mossad agents and veterans of the Israeli Armed Forces.”

The ‘About’ section on the site’s Facebook page , however, says in loud and clear terms that it’s an independent satirical media organisation. It also states, “All characters appearing in the articles in this website — even those based on real people — are entirely fictional and any resemblance between them and any person, living, dead or undead, is purely a miracle.”

Incidentally, this screenshot had also gone viral in 2017. At the time, many mainstream news websites including India Today and Aaj Tak reported on this, mistaking the satirical report for real news. These reports were later retracted.

To sum it up, an old screenshot of a satirical news article is now being circulated as a real news report amid anti-Qatar social media trends in India.