A video of Surya Namaskar (sun salutation) has gone viral on social media with the claim that it was performed at the opening ceremony of Tokyo Olympics 2020.

The minute-long video, as per the claim, shows performers dressed in tricolour-coordinated clothing doing Surya Namaskar - a sequence of 12 yoga postures.

Multiple Facebook users have posted this video with the caption, "Surya Namaskar@ Olympics At the opening ceremony of the Olympics in Tokyo - Japan with our National flag Dress Code"

advertisement

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is from Mongolia and not from the ongoing Tokyo Olympics.

During PM Narendra Modi's 2015 visit to Mongolia, a community reception event was organised by the Art of Living foundation at the Buyant Ukhaa Stadium in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia on May 17 and Surya Namaskar was performed at that event.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

With the help of Invid and reverse image search, we have found a longer version of the viral video from PM Modi's YouTube channel. This video was posted on May 17, 2015.

The video description reads, "The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi at the Community Reception and Yoga Event, organised by "Art of Living", in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia on May 17, 2015."

Here in the YouTube video, at 5.31 minutes, we can see the Surya Namaskar sequence. The viral video has been taken from this portion of the longer video.

Prime Minister Modi had visited Mongolia in 2015 to forge a bond between the two countries. During this visit, a colourful programme was organised by the Art of Living foundation in Mongolia for the prime minister. The Ministry of External Affairs had also tweeted about this event on the same day.

India & Mongolia - United in spirit and now also through Yoga. PM @narendramodi attends prog by Art of Living pic.twitter.com/PXO2dqA8vv — Arindam Bagchi (@MEAIndia) May 17, 2015

TOKYO OLYMPICS 2020

The opening ceremony of the Tokyo Olympics 2020 took place on July 23. India had 19 of its athletes represent the country in the opening ceremony event.