With over 1,21,000 confirmed cases and 4,378 deaths, the novel coronavirus scare has reached almost all the continents. Misinformation about the novel virus on social media, on the other hand, is also spreading almost unabated.

A video showing people getting emotional with a book is being shared on Facebook by several users. The users claim that China has now withdrawn its restrictions on reading the Quran after the spread of coronavirus and the Chinese government has now begun supplying the holy book to people.

advertisement

Users like "Pakistan is online" and "Niyaz Ahmed" have posted this video with the caption "China Govt. Restricted to read HoLy Quraan and after Corona Virus Govt. Supplying Quraan to read. What a amazing miracle of ALLAH and Quraan."

The archived version of these posts is saved here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News Fake News War room ( AFWA) found this to be a misleading post. The viral video is at least seven-years-old and has no relation to the novel coronavirus outbreak.

The same content is viral on Facebook and many people have posted this video believing this is related to the current outbreak of coronavirus in China.

Using the Invid verification tool, we first sliced up the viral video in keyframes. Then, using reverse image search on these keyframes, we found that this particular viral video was there on the internet since 2013.

On a website called "gospelprime.com", a story was published using the same photograph of a woman holding a book similar to that showed in the viral video. The story was published on March 19, 2013. The story claims that this was how the Chinese Christians had reacted after receiving Bibles.

The same video was also uploaded on YouTube in 2014, with a Spanish caption that loosely says these are emotional reactions of Chinese Christians after receiving Bibles.

The Facebook page of religious channel "God TV" had also posted this video with the caption "Chinese Christians receiving Bible for the first time".

Though there are many news reports available over the Chinese government's control on religious texts, we could not find any news report which confirms that China is supplying Quran to Muslims after the outbreak of coronavirus.

We also could not confirm the authenticity and details about the viral video, but, since the video is available on the internet since 2013, it can be easily inferred that this viral video has no connection to the recent outbreak of the novel coronavirus in China.