Chandauli SP dismissed the claims as fake news and clarified that the video is indeed from Chandauli and some officers, on allegations of theft, assaulted the minors. Chandauli SP later suspended both the police officers.

A disturbing video showing two police officers beating a boy mercilessly is widely circulating on social media with the claim that the Uttar Pradesh police thrashed the boy for raising pro Pakistan slogans.

The caption of the post reads, “Uttar Pradesh Police teaching a lesson to this boy after he raised slogans of Pakistan Zindabad”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google that led us to a news report published by Amar Ujala on 2 May 2021. According to the report, Chandauli police was caught thrashing three minor boys on charges of theft. Later, Chandauli SP suspended the officers seen in the video.

According to a report published by Dainik Jagran on May 2, 2021, three minors entered a shop in Mathela village of Chandauli. The shopkeeper grabbed them, alleging theft and informed the police. Shortly after, head constable from Kailavar chowki arrived at the spot. Instead of taking the minors to the police chowki for further investigation, the police officers started beating them severely. In the meantime, somebody made a video of this incident. After the video went viral, Chandauli SP Amit Kumar took stern action in the case and suspended Shivanand Verma, SHO of Kailavar chowki, and Head Constable Dilip Kumar.

Fact Crescendo contacted Chandauli’s SP, his PRO Rampreet Kumar confirmed to us that the video is an old incident and there was no incident of raising pro-Pakistan slogans. Both the officers seen in the video were suspended last year after the incident took place. Chandauli Police has also issued a clarification on their Twitter handle related to the video.

Chandauli Police tweeted that “The incident is more than a year old after which both the policemen were suspended due to the inhuman treatment given by them to minors”. The same tweet has been posted by UP Police Fact Check.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with viral video on social media to be False. Uttar Pradesh police did not thrash the boy for raising pro Pakistan slogans. The incident is a year old incident from Chandauli in Uttar Pradesh. The minors were beaten by police for alleged theft. Chandauli SP later suspended both the police officers.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)