Narrative

Deepika Newspaper has shared a Malayalam news article on their Facebook page on 4th June 2019. The headline of the article in Malayalam reads as such:

Modi pulled up for attending Iftar party; warning issued to Giriraj.

The body of the article in Malayalam however clarifies in the first paragraph that the Modi in the headline refers to Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi. The news article claims that Bihar deputy CM Sushil Modi was pulled up by Amit Shah for attending an Iftar party, which the article claims was hosted by central minister and LJP supremo Ram Vilas Paswan. The event had the presence of Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, Chirag Paswan, Sushil Modi among others. The article also claims that Giriraj Singh was pulled up by Amit Shah for advising the leaders of JD(U) and LJP who are members of NDA. There are three claims in this article which poses three questions before us. Did Amit Shah pull up Sushil Modi for attending Iftar party? Was the Iftar party hosted by LJP supremo Ram Vilas Paswan? And did Amit Shah pulled up Giriraj Singh for advising the leaders of BJP and its allies who attended the Iftar party? Let’s find out the answers to these questions by checking out the facts.

Our Fact Check

We searched for this news in websites of leading media organizations. Leading media organizations like India Today, NDTV and Times Now. But the reports published by these websites are different from what Deepika has published.

India Today has published the above news article whose headline reads that union minister Giriraj Singh was pulled up by BJP president and current central home minister Amit Shah for his jibe on his own party colleagues and BJP’s allies in Bihar for attending an Iftar party. However, nowhere in the article it is mentioned that Amit Shah has pulled up Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi for attending the Iftar party. The news articles published by other prominent websites have published a similar story and there are no reports that Sushil Modi was pulled up by Amit Shah for attending Iftar party. We searched online for news related to Amit Shah and Sushil Modi in the recent past. But we didn’t find any news related to Sushil Modi being rebuked by Amit Shah.

The story done by NDTV, mentions that the host of the Iftar party was Jitan Ram Manjhi and not Ram Vilas Paswan as claimed by Deepika. Manjhi’s party Hindustan Awam Morcha is a member of the opposition alliance.

Amit Shah did not pull up Sushil Modi for attending Iftar party nor the Iftar party was hosted by Ram Vilas Paswan. However, union minister Giriraj Singh was indeed pulled up for mocking his own party colleagues and leaders of the alliance partners of BJP. Here is the tweet by Giriraj Singh in which he is mocking the leaders for attending the Iftar party.

Conclusion

In our investigation we found that two of the three claims made in the article were factually incorrect. However, the claim that Giriraj Singh was pulled up by Amit Shah for mocking NDA leaders is correct. Hence we have rated it as mixture.