A video has gone viral on social media with the claim that Delhi Police halted an ambulance to let the convoy of BJP MP Manoj Tiwari pass, as a result of which a little girl fighting for life died.

The video, posted by Facebook page Aam Admi Zindabad, shows an ambulance, along with some other vehicles, stopped at a police blockade.

advertisement

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The traffic seen in the video was stopped for the convoy of Malaysian Prime Minister in 2017.

Till the time of filing this story, the video was shared more than 2,300 times. The claim, along with the video, also went viral on Twitter after user "GAURAV-INC" shared it on Friday. He later deleted the tweet. His tweet was retweeted more than 1,300 times and liked by 2,000 netizens.

AFWA investigation

During our investigation, we found the viral video in some news reports. As per Hindustan Times, the incident took place on April 1, 2017, when traffic was stopped near Rajghat flyover in Delhi for smooth movement of the cavalcade of former Malaysian PM Najib Razak. An ambulance, carrying an injured child, was stuck in this traffic.

A report by 'The Times of India' says that a bank employee named Preet Narula shot this video while he was on his way to work. As per Narula's video, the ambulance was taking an injured child from Sonipat to a hospital in Delhi. The child was in a critical condition at that time and had lost consciousness by then.

The report also has a statement of a senior police officer who said that "the ambulance was stuck behind many cars and we brought it in the front. After a few moments, we allowed the ambulance to pass".

On the misleading tweet by "GAURAV-INC", Manoj Tiwari himself clarified that the claim with the video is totally false, following which the Twitter user deleted the tweet.

@RahulGandhi is it compulsory to be a part of fake news factory if u have to be in congress? No traffic is ever stopped for any MP in Delhi or elsewhere, its an old video where international delegate was enroute In Delhi, @DelhiPolice pls register case against this @INC_GAURAV_ https://t.co/GAOuv1Mdcx Manoj Tiwari (@ManojTiwariMP) September 14, 2019

This same video went viral in May this year too with the claim that police halted the ambulance for Rahul Gandhi's convoy.

At that time too, AFWA and others had debunked this claim.