The viral video shared as inefficiency of Delhi Govt, is actually of KEM Hospital, Mumbai

Viral: “केजरवाल कुछ तो शर्म करो……. हद हो गई भाई। नहीं समलता तो बताओ राष्ट्रपति शासन लागू करने का अनुरोध करें”

Translation: “Kejriwal, you should be ashamed. All limits have been crossed. If you can’t handle the situation, tell us. We will request for President’s Rule in Delhi.”

The video has been shared extensively over social media.

FACEBOOK

This particular post by one Rajendra Sharma, who claims to be District Vice President of Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) has been shared for over 28,000 times and has been viewed for 7,65,000 times

Archive

The video has been shared widely over Facebook

The video has been shared on Twitter as well

केजरवाल कुछ तो शर्म करो……. हद हो गई भाई। नहीं समलता तो बताओ राष्ट्रपति शासन लागू करने का अनुरोध करें Unlimited videos free download! Dont miss the chance to get to know the App which 10000000+ person love the most https://t.co/9QkUVTUu1P pic.twitter.com/zdBqjgKI7T — Pramod Kumar (@PramodK72506489) May 29, 2020

Archive

Archive

Truth

On looking and hearing the video closely, at about 11 seconds into the video, the man in the video says, “इनको लेके नहीं जा रहे, KEM हॉस्पिटल है” (translation: They are not taking them, this is KEM hospital), and at about 1 minute 20 seconds to 1 minute 24 seconds in the video, you can hear the lady say, “बाहर जा और अपलोड कर, फ़ेस्बुक पे डाल KEM को टैग कर” (translation: “Go out, upload it on Facebook and tag KEM hospital)

This is one of the major proofs that the video is not from Delhi, but from KEM Hospital, Mumbai. KEM (King Edward Memorial) Hospital is a teaching and medical care hospital in Mumbai.

Later on, we searched for news reports which have reported on the video.

We found a video by Brut India, the headline read, “COVID-19 is Bleeding Mumbai Hospitals Dry”, and the description read, “ Mumbai’s doctors are working out of their skin to save lives. But as cases multiply, these hospital wards are turning into a nightmare. “

Archive

Here are the screen grabs from the news report, which mention KEM Hospital, Mumbai, saying, “The video showed the condition of an emergency ward in Mumbai’s state-run KEM Hospital on May 26, 2020.

We also found a report by Times Now, reporting on the video shot at KEM Hospital, Mumbai.

#Breaking | Watch: Patient films ‘horror’ in a Maharashtra hospital. Dead bodies, without even being wrapped up are found lying in rooms where patients are accommodated. Details by TIMES NOW’s Aruneel. | #RahulDumpsMaharashtra pic.twitter.com/LJycZ5hMQk — TIMES NOW (@TimesNow) May 27, 2020

Archive

Below is the screenshot of the news report, wherein KEM Hospital, Mumbai is mentioned.

The official Twitter handle of ‘Aam Aadmi Party’ also clarified that the video is not from Delhi, they said, “This video is not from Delhi. It’s Mumbai’s KEM Hospital, this video was first posted by BJP Leader Ram Kadam on 27th May. Please don’t mislead the people in this hour of crisis.”

This video is not from Delhi. It's Mumbai's KEM Hospital, this video was first posted by BJP Leader Ram Kadam on 27th May. Please don't mislead the people in this hour of crisis. https://t.co/XUSsMhHf4J pic.twitter.com/nb3tel93Ad — AAP (@AamAadmiParty) May 29, 2020

Archive

Hence, it is established that the video was shot in KEM Hospital, Mumbai, and NOT in Delhi as claimed in the viral posts. The viral claims are absolutely false.