As the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Election continues, a video of a few people fighting on a stage has gone viral on social media. Many sharing the video claimed that former UP Minister Swami Prasad Maurya was beaten by his own party workers.

In January, Maurya resigned from the Yogi Adityanath-led cabinet and the Bharatiya Janata Party to join the Samajwadi Party. Since then, he has campaigned across the state for Akhilesh Yadav.

advertisement

“All that was left to be seen: During a public meeting, Swami Prasad Maurya was kicked on stage by the SP workers. Here’s a teaser” A Facebook user wrote in Hindi while sharing the aforementioned video.

Another Twitter user shared the video with a Hindi caption claiming that the incident took place in Lucknow’s Malihabad Assembly.

Archived versions of similar claims can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this claim to be misleading. The viral video does not show Swami Prasad Maurya getting beaten up. Rather, it captured two groups of Samajwadi Party workers fighting.

AFWA Probe

With the help of the InVid tool and reverse image searches, we found the same video uploaded by News24 on February 20 on their YouTube channel. That video described this incident as a fight among the SP workers when Maurya was verbally attacking the Yogi government.

As Maurya was not visible in the viral video, we looked for additional information on this by searching a few combinations of keywords.

Results led us to a report published by the Navbharat Times, the Hindi edition of Times of India, on February 20, 2022. According to the report, when Maurya was done with his speech at a rally held in Malihabad, two SP leaders and their supporters started fighting. According to the report, the incident happened on Saturday, 19th February.

However, the report didn’t carry any details about the groups of SP supporters who participated in the fight. Some more keyword searches took us to a report which was published by Jagran on February 19.

The Jagran report described this incident in detail and noted that supporters of the Municipal Corporation Chairman Ahasan Aziz Khan and former Minister Isram Ali got into a heated conversation that subsequently turned into a fistfight. However, other leaders who were present on the stage pacified both groups soon.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the viral video of two SP leaders’ supporters fighting among themselves was shared with misleading claims.