The image shows the Incheon International Airport at Seoul in South Korea. The Noida International Airport in Uttar Pradesh has not been constructed yet. PM Modi laid the foundation stone one day ago.

On 25 November 2021, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Noida International Airport, near Jewar in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district. Followed by this event several media organizations reported this news with an image of the airport. This image is being shared as visuals of the Noida International Airport in Jewar, Uttar Pradesh. Many articles carried the image without specifying whether it is the actual image or a representative image.

Fact Crescendo’s investigation revealed that the viral image is not from India.



The caption of the tweet published by Zee News mentions “PM Modi laid the foundation stone of Asia’s largest Noida International Airport in Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh.”

Tweet Link | Archive Link

The same image was shared by Jagran English, Bhaskar live, Manish Raj among the several others who have shared the viral image as the newly inaugurated Noida International Airport.

#NoidaInternationalAirport | Infrastructure not politics for us but part of national policy; we're ensuring projects don't get stuck and are completed in time: PM @narendramodi



For more: https://t.co/mUfW7dZePF #NarendraModi #JewarAirport pic.twitter.com/FRzM65Yips — Jagran English (@JagranEnglish) November 25, 2021

Archive Link | Archive Link | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a Google reverse image search, whose results led us to a website named Gensler who has published the same image viral on social media. According to the information given on the website, the image shows Incheon International Airport in South Korea.

We also came across another Germany-based media outlet Der Spiegel that had carried the viral image in 2013 and mentioned that it as the Incheon airport. The image was credited to Gensler, which is a global design firm. The caption of the image says “New terminal for Incheon Airport in Seoul: 72 more gates by 2018 Foto: PRNewsFoto/ Gensler”

This image was also published on the Economic Times on 2018, saying that is shows Incheon International Airport at Seoul in South Korea. Stock image website, Alamy has also published another view of the same airport in 2017. The caption of the image says “Incheon, South Korea. 2nd June 2017. Aerial view of Incheon International Airport, South Korea.”

The official Unravel Travel TV published an aerial version of the Incheon International Airport in South Korea.

We can also we see this airport in Seoul on the Google Maps Satellite view.

However, it should also be noted that the construction of the Noida International Airport has just begun on 25 November 2021 after PM Modi laid the foundation stone. We can see PM Modi looking at the design of the airport on the live stream uploaded on his Youtube channel.

In addition, this image neither the proposed model of the Jewar airport after construction as we can see the proposed model is completely different.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the image to be False. The image does not show the Noida International Airport in Uttar Pradesh. It shows the Incheon International Airport in South Korea.