A video of sword-wielding men chasing and injuring a man, who is then seen lying motionless on the street, is going viral on social media. The claim along with the video says a group of Muslim youth attacked a Hindu boy named Sanjay Mishra in Nalasopara near Mumbai after his friend got involved in an argument with some locals.

Facebook page “The Sanghi Millenial” shared the video and wrote a long post, part of which says, “1 of the accused is been caught by a Police and FIR has been registered on his name (name withheld by cops) while other 3 are missing and search is going on for them. And now that, those names are unnamed you can very clearly see their skull caps and know who actually did this brutal Killing.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is indeed from Nalasopara, but the communal angle given to the incident is not correct. The fight had erupted due to personal enmity and the man named Sanjay Mishra was injured. The main accused in the case is a Christian.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. The post is viral on Twitter as well.

AFWA probe

A reverse search revealed that the video is from Nalasopara in Palghar district adjoining Mumbai in Maharashtra. News reports from July 2 say it was a clash between two groups. Nowhere is it mentioned that it was a communal clash.

We contacted Tulinj police station in Nalasopara and found that the fight broke out on June 21. Around 4 pm on that day, a few people clashed with swords and sticks at Pragati Nagar area of Nalasopara East. An FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), along with Arms Act for illegal possession of lethal weapons.

Assistant police inspector Deepak Girkar, who is investigating the case, said there was no communal angle to the clash. “This is a slum area and these people are neighbours. They had a tiff for a long time. A non-cognizable offence was registered earlier. The main accused in the case is a Christian named Vijay Thomas. The other three are Muslims but there is no communal angle as is being claimed by many. On social media, it is also being claimed that the victim is dead, which is not the case either,” Girkar said.

The victim, 22-year-old Sanjay Mishra, is a resident of the same area as the accused. This is reflected in the case diary entries of the police where Vijay’s name can be seen, along with the names of the other accused Pappu, Salim and Noor.

Thus, it can be concluded that though an incident of violence did occur at Nalasopara, the communal angle given to it on social media is not true.