With just over three months left for the United States Presidential election, and prospective candidates already wooing the electorate, a sensational image of American President Donald Trump kissing convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein is doing the rounds on social media.

In the picture, the two are seen sitting in the backseat of a car with Epstein’s back leaning on Trump, and the US President holding him with an arm and planting a kiss on his head. Netizens are even accusing the duo of raping children. One such post on Twitter says, “Hey look @realDonaldTrump you and your pal before you raped some children #Epstein#TrumpOut2020#TrumpIsUnwell.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the image is doctored.

The picture is viral on WhatsApp too. The archived version of the Twitter post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

There are several things about the picture that raise suspicion. Epstein’s head appears to be out of proportion to the body. Also, on closely observing the picture, one can see a bunch of long smooth hair right beside Epstein’s face, which again is out of proportion to his short curly hair.

Reverse-searching the photograph, we found the original picture with “Getty Images” wherein Trump is seen kissing his daughter Ivanka. The caption of the picture says it was taken in a limousine in 1990. Ivanka was 13 years old at that time.

All the elements in this image such as Trump’s sitting position, his seatbelt and the remote kept on the car seat are exactly the same as the viral image. In the latter, Ivanka’s face has been replaced with Epstein’s. The image has been cropped and its quality is quite poor; perhaps edited in such a way so as to give the impression that the picture is old, and also to hide the flaws of a poorly done photoshop job.

American financier Jeffrey Epstein was accused of sex trafficking, and his case was among the most high-profile ones in the country. According to media reports, he died by suicide in a New York prison cell last year.

According to a 2002 article by “New York” magazine, Trump had said about Epstein, “I’ve known Jeff for fifteen years. Terrific guy. He’s a lot of fun to be with. It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the younger side. No doubt about it — Jeffrey enjoys his social life.”

But the viral picture of Trump kissing Epstein is morphed. International fact-check website “Snopes” had also debunked the claim.