A picture of a woman kissing an iron girder is going viral on social media with a fascinating story. Text superimposed on the picture says a woman attempted suicide from the Eiffel Tower, landed on a car, survived and later married the owner of the car.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the post to be misleading. The woman seen in the viral image is Erika, who had reportedly hit the news after marrying’ the Eiffel Tower in 2007. But Erika never attempted suicide from the tower. The story narrated on the viral image has no relation with her.

advertisement

The viral story of a woman jumping off Eiffel Tower, landing on a car, surviving and marrying the car’s owner is partially true. The whole story does not corroborate with factual proof.

With the help of reverse image search, we found that the viral picture appeared on several news websites, such as The Telegraph, news.com.au, and The Richest.

As per these reports, a woman named Erika Labrie was intensely in love with the Eiffel Tower. In 2007, she changed her surname to Eiffel and got married to the tower after a commitment ceremony.

This unusual love and attraction toward an inanimate object is called Object Sexuality (OS). According to these reports, Erika was criticised for her OS and for marrying the Eiffel Tower. A documentary film was made on the incident as well, called Married To The Eiffel Tower.

We found that the viral story of a woman attempting suicide from Eiffel Tower, landing on a car and then getting married to the car owner has been on the Internet for quite some time. But there is no confirmation or solid proof that corroborates the entire story.

We found a website called wafflesatnoon which tried to find some facts about this urban legend. According to this website, a news report partially confirms that in 1964, a young woman named Christiane attempted suicide from the Eiffel tower and landed on top of a car. She survived with a broken leg.

A series of pictures by Getty Images with the title The Survivor Of The Eiffel Tower published on December 22, 1964, shows the survivor named Christiane Coquentin celebrating Christmas with relatives and friends. But nowhere in the website is there any mention about the car owner or her fiance.

We could not find any authentic news report which substantiates that Christiane had actually married the car owner. Hence, we can say that this viral story is partially true. But the woman seen in the viral post is Erika and certainly not Christiane Coquentin, who attempted suicide from Eiffel Tower.