Several states like Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have witnessed violent protests against the recent introduction of the 'Agnipath' scheme. Agitations turned violent and resulted in damage to public property worth hundreds of crores in Bihar.

The main opposition party of Bihar, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has also supported the ongoing protest. Meanwhile, a video has gone viral on social media questioning RJD's role in prompting the youth to riot.

advertisement

In the viral video, a man is heard introducing himself as a follower of Lalu Prasad Yadav-- the RJD patron, while talking to the press. He goes on to voice the concerns of the students but loses words and disappears when asked about the cause of the protest.

While sharing the video, Twitter users have posted captions that blame the party, whose leader is convicted of 'fodder scams', for orchestrating the ongoing protests.

Archived versions of the similar claims can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found these posts to be misleading as the video is not related to the ongoing protest. The video is from January when Bihar witnessed protests over the two-stage RRB-NTPC exams.

AFWA Probe

A reverse search of the screenshots from the viral clip led us to the same video posted by a Twitter user on January 31, 2022.

In that video, the logo of 'Principle of News' was visible. We ran some keywords and found the YouTube channel 'Principle of News' that covers the developments in Bihar.

We found the original video uploaded on January 28, 2022, from which the viral clip was snipped out. The caption of the video clearly states this protest on the RRB-NTPC row.

What was the protest about?

This is not the first time that Bihar has seen students' protests going violent and leading to arson of public properties this year. In January, angry students set trains on fire after the Railways decided to hold the Railway Recruitment Board's Non-Technical Popular Categories (RRB-NTPC) exams 2021 in two stages. The agitators claimed the second stage for final selection was tantamount to "cheating" those who appeared and cleared the first stage of the RRB-NTPC for computer-based test (CBT) which was released on January 15.

Meanwhile, the Agnipath scheme was introduced by the government on June 14, 2022. Since then, the RJD has urged the central government several times to recall this scheme.

Therefore, it is safe to conclude that the viral video is not related to the ongoing protests. The footage from several months before is now shared with misleading claims.