Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann is all set to get married for the second time on July 7. Per reports, the name of Mann’s fiancée is Dr Gurpreet Kaur. His first marriage ended in divorce in 2016. Following the surprise announcement of his wedding, an old video of a woman has gone viral with the claim that she is the CM’s wife-to-be.

advertisement

This video was shared by the Twitter account of Delhi’s MERI College on February 9, 2020, writing, “#MeriGroup # InnovativeTeachingPedagogy # 25YearsofExcellence Session on Active Listening by Dr Gurpreet Kaur Chhabra.”

More than two years later, some people on Twitter shared the video claiming this was Mann’s fiancée. One such tweet reads, “New wife of Punjab CM. Session on active listening.... Wondering if people can also listen after few drinks.”

Archived versions of such tweets can be seen here and here.

AFWA found that the woman in the video, also called Dr Gurpreet Kaur, is not the person the Punjab CM is set to marry.

AFWA Probe

ANI tweeted a photo of the Punjab CM’s fiancée. We compared this photo with the woman in the viral video and found no similarities.

Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann will get married in a close private ceremony at his house in Chandigarh tomorrow with Dr Gurpreet Kaur. CM Delhi & AAP National convener Arvind Kejriwal will be in attendance. CM Mann was divorced from his earlier marriage almost 6 years back.



(file pic) pic.twitter.com/tC3Zd2LGfv — ANI (@ANI) July 6, 2022

Further, we found the Facebook profile of Dr Gurpreet Kaur Chhabra, the woman in the viral video. AFWA contacted her and she confirmed that the viral video featured her, but she’s not the one set to marry the Punjab CM.

Per reports, Mann’s wedding ceremony at his official residence will be attended by close family members and relatives. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal will also be in attendance.

Mann’s ex-wife Inderpreet Kaur and two children — Dilshan Mann (17) and Seerat Kaur Mann (21) — live in the US, both of whom came to their father's swearing-in ceremony in March.

Thus, we concluded that while the woman in the video is also called Gurpreet Kaur, she is not the one Mann is set to marry.

(Written by Yash Mittal)