A video is going viral on social media claiming that the U.S. government has sacked Dr. Fauci. The post further goes on to claim that the U.S government has finally admitted that the COVID-19 virus is man-made. Dr. Fauci is the Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and the Chief Medical Advisor to the U.S. He is an American physician-scientist and immunologist who serves as the director of the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and the chief medical advisor to the president.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, Dr. Fauci was one of the lead members of President Donald Trump’s White House Coronavirus Task Force. Currently Fauci is the Chief Medical Advisor to President Joe Biden, officially appointed in 2021.

The caption of the Facebook Post mentions that “Dr Faucci sacked. US admits corona virus is a man made. Dr Fauci becomes the first wicket to fall in US administration. Though slightly late.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by using the InVid- We Verify tool to break the video into small keyframes and then ran a reverse image search , the results led us to a Facebook live video published by the official handle of Fox News on 15th June 2021.The caption of the post mentions “Rep. Greene holds a press conference on removing Dr. Fauci as head of NIAID.Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene and other lawmakers hold a press conference to discuss removing Dr. Anthony Fauci as head of the NIAID.” We found that the woman in the video is Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene. She held a press conference on15th June 2021 regarding the ‘Fire Fauci Act’ (Bill) introduced by her in the House of Representatives.

Next, we searched about the “Fire Fauci Act(Bill)” on Google and found that according to Congress.gov the Bill proposes to reduce the salary of the NIAID Director to $0 until Dr Fauci is removed from the post and a new Director is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The website states that the bill is to reduce the salary of the Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, to provide for an audit of the correspondence, financial statements, and policy memoranda within the Office of the Director during the COVID–19 outbreak, and for other purposes. The ‘Fire Fauci Act’ (Bill) is yet to be passed in the House of Representatives and Senate.

Did the US Government admit that COVID-19 is a man-made virus?

With a keyword search we found a media briefing done by President Biden on 26th May 2021 in the White House regarding his concern on the COVID-19 virus origin. The U.S. President said that he has asked the Intelligence Community to investigate the origins of COVID-19 and report back to him in 90 days.

He further said that – “As of today, the U.S. Intelligence Community has “coalesced around two likely scenarios” (whether it emerged from human contact with an infected animal or from a laboratory accident) but has not reached a definitive conclusion on this question.”

There was no mention of the President or the government of USA stating that the COVID-19 is a man-made virus.

Did the USA government sack Dr. Fauci?

We visited the website of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases which stated that he is still the director of the institute. The website mentioned “In a 2021 analysis of Google Scholar citations, Dr. Fauci ranked as the 35th most-cited living researcher. According to the Web of Science, Dr. Fauci ranked 9th out of 2.5 million authors in the field of immunology by total citation count between 1980 and January 2021.”

We found another briefing in the White House with the headline as “Remarks by President Biden on the May Jobs report” on 4th June 2021.We can see the transcript of the entire briefing where when President Biden was questioned whether he has confidence on Dr. Fauci. The President replied that he is still very confident of Dr. Fauci.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above-mentioned claim made along with the video to be False. Dr. Fauci has not been sacked by the U.S. government. He is still the Director of NIAID. Also, the U.S. government has not admitted that COVID-19 is a man-made virus.

You can read more such Fact Checks below-

1.COVID-19 Rapid Antigen Test Results Are Not Pre Decided

2. Fake Message Claims That Singapore Found That Thrombosis Is A Major Cause Of Covid Deaths

3. EXPLAINER: Has Live Coronavirus Been Found In Sabarmati River Of Gujarat?