With the announcement of the Lok Sabha election dates, the issue of Electronic Voting Machine (EVM) has made a comeback on social media. Amid all the hullabaloo, a Facebook post has gone viral, claiming that Prime Minister Narendra Modi boycotted the EVM when he was not in power.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

A Facebook user, Sunil Kumar, posted a video along with the text which says, Baat un dino ki hai jab purvvarti sarkar ke karyakal main matdan ke liye matpeti ki jagah EVM machino ka prayog shuru hua tha. Aaj Modiji aur unki party EVM machine ki sabse bade samarthak hain aur doosre vipakshi dal matpatra dvara matdan ki mang kar rahe hain. Sochiye, satta milne ke baad swar kyun badal jate hain. (The issue is from the days when the previous government started using EVM machines instead of ballot papers. Now, Modi and his party are the biggest supporters of EVM machines while Opposition leaders are asking for use of ballot paper. Think, why tone changes after getting to power.)

There is another message posted with the video claiming, "Jab Modiji satta me nahi the tab kuch is tarah se karte the EVM ka bahishkar (When Modiji was not in power then this is how he used to boycott the EVM.)"

The post was already shared by 1,12,000 Facebook users at the last count.

In the video, PM Modi can be heard saying, "Bhaiyo aur behno, arrey duniya ke padhe likhe desh bhi, jab chunav hota hai na to ballot paper par naam padh kar ke fir thappa marte hain aaj bhi. America me bhi. (Even in educated countries in the world today when an election take place, ballot papers are used and people read their names and then put a stamp. Even in America.)

With the help of reverse search, we found that the video has been used out of context. The video dates back to December 3, 2016, when Modi was delivering a speech in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad. During the speech, he was talking about technological development. The original speech can be heard here.

The correct context begins at 55 minute-08 second of the original speech: Kuch log kehte hain hamara desh gareeb hai, log anpadh hai, logon ko kuch aata nahi hai. Bhaiyo behno, arrey duniya ke padhe likhe desh bhi, jab chunav hota hai na to ballot paper par naam padh kar ke fir thappa marte hain aaj bhi. America me bhi. Ye Hindustan hai, jisko aap anpadh kehte ho, gareeb kehte ho, wo batan daba kar vote dena janta hai. In fact, PM Modi displays a sense of pride while referring to the EVM.