With the second wave of Covid-19 creating havoc in the country, social media is flooded with unverified and unscientific home remedies.

In one such viral message, it is being claimed that to increase the oxygen level one should inhale camphor, clove, ajwain and eucalyptus oil.

Fact Crescendo received many requests about this message on our WhatsApp Factline (9049053770).

Many media reports and experts came forward to dismiss it as a myth and scientifically yet to be proven.

WHAT’S THE CLAIM?

The viral message reads as: Camphor, lavang, ajwain, few drops eucalyptus oil. Make potli and keep smelling it throughout the day and night. Helps increase oxygen levels and congestion. This potli is also given to tourists in Ladakh when oxygen levels are low. Many ambulances are now keeping these too. It’s a home remedy.

Original Post – Facebook

FACT CHECK

To confirm the veracity of the claims, we checked whether the government and World Health Organization (WHO) have shared any such guidance as mentioned in the viral message. We did not find any information regarding this.

Then we contacted the renowned physician and researcher Dr. Himmatrao Bawaskar, who has been treating Covid-19 patients on a daily basis, to confirm the information in the viral message. He categorically stated that the message is completely unreliable.

“People should not believe such unscientific messages, especially when we are dealing with a global crisis like Covid-19. The so-called home remedies are not effective treatments of a coronavirus infection. One should only the seek advice of doctors,” he said in a telephonic conversation.

Camphor is a terpene (organic compound) that is commonly used in creams, ointments, and lotions. Although it can be used topically to relieve pain, irritation, and itching, there is no good scientific evidence to support other uses of camphor. It has a potential for causing side effects, especially if you use it in high doses.

Though clove is good for health, there is no scientific research that proves its effectiveness on Covid-19.

Similarly, Carom seeds (Ajwain) are the seeds of the ajwain herb. They’re commonly used in Indian cuisine. There is limited research to suggest that carom seeds may have anti-coughing effects and could help increase airflow to the lungs. More research is needed to better understand the effect of carom seeds on coughing and other respiratory symptoms in humans.

IANS quoted Dr. Narottam Kumar, “I have been closely monitoring the recipes and I am completely flummoxed. One such recipe for patients in home isolation, recommends five teaspoons of cinnamon powder, taken with warm water. Cinnamon can actually increase the amount of carbon dioxide produced in the stomach, which restricts blood circulation by constricting your blood vessels. This helps you retain body heat and is counterproductive in summer.”

Dr. Surya Kant, a pulmonologist, appealed to people not to follow WhatsApp prescriptions without consulting their family doctors.

Conclusion

Hence, the viral message is not based on credible scientific research. We urge our readers not to believe such unverified claims.