With two phases down and the third just days away in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, a video featuring a group of young men brandishing guns and firing them in the open has gone viral with the claim that this was shot recently at the reception of a Samajwadi Party leader.

Several Facebook and Twitter users shared the video with captions like: “Hundreds of illegal firearms were brandished during an SP procession. Guns were fired at the reception of Nawazish, the son of former SP cabinet minister and assembly polls candidate Shahid Manzoor. The video of them dancing with weapons at the procession has gone viral. The viral video is from the Kithore Assembly constituency. The gun-toting Samajwadi Party.”

advertisement

Lawyer and Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Prashant Patel Umrao shared the viral video with the same claim.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room ( AFWA) found the claim misleading. The viral video is more than five years old and is not related to the ongoing elections in Uttar Pradesh.

AFWA probe

Soon after the video went viral, the Uttar Pradesh police refuted the claim by tweeting that it was from 2016.

But the police could not provide any visual evidence in support of their claim. When AFWA contacted Prabhakar Chaudhary, the SSP of Meerut, his office only reiterated that the viral video was from 2016, and that they were still investigating the matter.

AFWA tried every possible combination of keywords and searched the internet, narrowing the timeline down to 2016, but failed to find any videos related to the incident.

India Today’s Meerut correspondent Usman Chaudhary confirmed that the man in a white kurta seen at the last part of the viral video was indeed local Samajwadi Party leader Nawazish Alam Khan, the son of former SP cabinet minister and assembly polls candidate Shahid Manzoor.

Since the claim is around Nawazish Alam Khan, AFWA contacted the SP leader from Meerut. Over the phone, Khan confirmed that it was indeed him in the viral video.

“It was in 2016, I was at an election campaign rally in the Radhna Inayatpur village of Meerut for the Zilla Panchayat elections. There were some local goons led by Umar Ali who were firing in open air, which I disliked. The same day, I expelled Umar Ali from the party and he joined the BJP as their agent.” claimed Khan.

With the location of Radhna Inayatpur as a possible clue, we once again searched for the video and found the exact video uploaded on YouTube by a user on October 27, 2017. The title of the YouTube video reads, “Radhana Inayatpur ma aaved hatiyro ka shaath Umar Ali our ous ka gang” or “Umar Ali and his gang seen with illegal weapons in Radhna Inayatpur.”

advertisement

The YouTube video is a little longer than one going viral. At the start, we can see some young people dancing with a kid on their shoulders and arms in their hands. One can also see a water tank distinctly in the background.

Geo locating the spot

AFWA tried to look for local contacts from Radhna Inayatpur. We also chanced upon the number of a local mosque in Radhna Inayatpur. We contacted Mohd. Nazish, the administrator of the Haji Tosif Wali Masjid.

Nazish watched the viral video and confirmed that it was indeed from Radhna Inayatpur. “This incident took place in 2016. Police action was taken against the people seen with firearms in the video. The water tank is located at the entry point of our Radhna Inayatpur village.”

AFWA requested Mohd. Nazish to send a recent video or a recent picture from the location seen in the viral video showing the water tank. Subsequently, he sent us a recent video from the exact spot seen in the viral video with the landmark water tank in the background.

The exact location is Amarpur Mazra Khandawli and the road seen in the viral video leads to Mawana from Kithore, as identified on Google Maps.

Video sent by a local resident of Radhna Inayatpur village. Thus, based on all the evidence, it is clear that the viral video is over five years old and not linked to ongoing polls in UP. READ | Old image of truckers’ convoy passed off as recent protest against Covid-19 mandates in Canada