As India is fighting a tough battle against Covid-19 during the second wave, political war between the government and the Opposition is also on. While attacking the government over its insufficient efforts to contain the spread and save lives, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Twitter saying that "along with vaccine, oxygen and medicines, PM is also missing".

advertisement , PM



, GST - PM — Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) May 13, 2021

Soon, the social media platform was flooded with #ModiMissing asking "where is the prime minister". And the fake news machinery was not far behind when a clipping of English daily newspaper Hindustan Times' frontpage clipping with a classified advertisement of PM Modi being "missing" started doing rounds on the internet.

The text of the classified ad reads, "MISSING The PM of India also known as son of Ganga. Also known as Pradhan Sewak. Description- Chest 56-inch White long grey beard. Is known to be seen in company of big businessmen. Loves peacock.

Several social media users shared the picture along with hashtag '#missingmodi'.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AWFA) found out that the 'MISSING' advertisement in the newspaper is in fact morphed. Several Facebook and Twitter users have shared the screenshot of the viral newspaper pushing the claim that PM Modi had gone missing. The archived versions of such posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using relevant keywords, we found the original version of the e-newspaper on epaper.hindustantimes.com, dated May 7, 2021. The original newspaper shows an article published with the headline: "COURT A PUBLIC SPACE, COVERAGE PART OF FREEDOM OF SPEECH, SAYS SC".

Both fake and original newspaper clippings can be seen below.

Hence, it is clear that Hindustan Times has not published any classified advertisement claiming that PM Modi is missing.

The original Hindustan Times e-newspaper was edited using editing software.

(Inputs by Sonali Khatta)