A 21-second video of Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar Tejashwi Yadav is going viral on social media sites.

In the video, he can be heard saying that he will fulfill what his party promised and will provide 10 lakh jobs when he will become the Chief Minister, as of now he is the Deputy Chief Minister.

A verified account of Shandilya Giriraj Singh, MP Begusurai posted this video rather sarcastically and writes, “We will fulfill what we promised to provide 10 lakh jobs when we become the Chief Minister, now we are the Deputy Chief Minister. (Along with a laughing Emoji) (English Translation)

10 लाख रोजगार देने का जो हमने वादा किया था वह हम मुख्यमंत्री बनने पर पूरा करेंगे अभी तो हम उपमुख्यमंत्री हैं।

😂 pic.twitter.com/X8pbjhxmdH — Shandilya Giriraj Singh (मोदी का परिवार) (@girirajsinghbjp) August 11, 2022

Fact Check:

To investigate the viral video, the DFRAC desk started searching for the interview telecasted on Zee News and found the full video on its YouTube channel under the caption, “Tejashwi Yadav Exclusive Interview Live.”

In the interview, he can be seen saying, “We had promised 10 lakh jobs when I became the chief minister. Right now I am a Deputy Chief Minister But Chief Minister @NitishKumar has discussed this with us and he is serious about this matter and he has given instructions.

For further investigation, we scrolled through the comment section of Shandilya Giriraj Singh and found many people claiming the viral video was misleading and uploading the full interview instead.

DFRAC desk found a Tweet of Tejaswhi Yadav in which he is denying the claims of Sahndilya as he writes, “Sir, don’t be so shameless. One does not become knowledgeable by having a one-foot-long ponytail as you do. This is the plight of the f BJP only because of these chirpy antics, edited video, and road raid statements of you people. These poor people have no face in Bihar. Enjoy listening to the rest of this video.”(English Translation)

श्रीमान जी, इतना बेशर्म मत बनिए। एक फुट लंबी चोटी रखने से कोई ज्ञानी नहीं बन जाता, जैसे आप रखते है। आप लोगों की इन चिरकुट हरकतों, Edited Videos व सड़क छाप बयानों की बदौलत ही भाजपा की यह दुर्दशा है। इन बेचारों का बिहार में कोई चेहरा ही नहीं।



बाक़ी इस पूरे Video को सुन ख़ुशी मनाइए https://t.co/AMqEgcG2JX pic.twitter.com/AOtubm91J7 — Tejashwi Yadav (@yadavtejashwi) August 11, 2022

Conclusion:

Cropped video of Tejaswhi Yadav is being shared with the misleading claim.

Claim Review: Tejashwi Yadav promised to provide 10 Lakh jobs, once appointed as CM.

Claimed by: @girirajsinghbjp

Fact Check: misleading