Amid Russia’s ongoing invasion of Ukraine and the Indian government’s efforts to evacuate stranded Indian nationals from the war-torn country, a video of Russian President Vladimir Putin has gone viral on social media with some questionable claims.

The 29-second-long clip shared on Facebook and Twitter featured Putin speaking. The clip was shared with claims that the Russian leader had asked Pakistan to hand over the GilgitBaltistan region to India.

advertisement

“Indian media won’t show you this. But Putin called Pakistan occupied Jammu, Kashmir, and Ladakh a part of India. Putin also announced a veto in the Security Council on the Gilgit region. The Russian cabinet condemned BAP [Balochistan Awami Party] for passing a resolution on Gilgit in the Pak senate. He instructed Pakistan to hand over GilgitBaltistan to India and take the resolution back,” read a caption sharing this viral clip.

The viral video contains an English transcription of Putin’s speech. It reads, “I clarified during my speech at UNSC that GilgitBaltistan should be part of India. Russia does not support the Pakistani initiative to create Gilgit as a provisional province. PM Imran Khan came to Moscow to convince me on this issue. He talked about bringing a gas and oil pipeline from Russia to Pakistan through China and Gilgit. It is not a viable idea because Pakistan is an occupier in Gilgit. I talked to my cabinet members about the provisional province.”

The transcript further read, “They condemned BAP for bringing a resolution in the PAK senate on Gilgit. I mean who created BAP? Are they from Gilgit? Who instructed them to do this? I say take AJK [Azad Jammu and Kashmir] like set up and be happy. Have your own flag, constitution, president. Send Pakistan packing. They are only after your resources. PM Khan asked for money. He wanted to send some Islamic Jihadis here. I said, how about the Bani Gala?' Will you sell it? He laughed and his teeth fell out. I veto Gilgit Province's motion in the Security Council [United Nations]."

Twitter users posted this video alongside a caption that reads, “BREAKING NEWS!!!!!!! President #Putin announced to veto the issue of Gilgit provisional province in the Security Council. His cabinet condemned BAP for senate resolution on Gilgit province. Asked Pakistan to withdraw and hand Gilgit to India.”

BREAKING NEWS!!!!!!!

President #Putin announced to veto the issue of Gilgit provisional province in the Security Council

His cabinet condemned BAP for senate resolution on Gilgit province

Asked Pakistan to withdraw and hand Gilgit to India #Russia #Pakistan #GilgitBaltistan pic.twitter.com/vG1SOK5RN2 — #SengeSering (@SengeHSering) March 2, 2022

Archived versions of these claims can be seen here and here.

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Rom (AFWA) found these claims to be false as the transcription of Putin’s address was manipulated. The Russian President was actually speaking about the sanctions announced by western countries and not about Pakistan.

AFWA Probe

Although Putin was speaking in Russian, the words “Pakistan,” “Gilgit,” or “veto,” were not present in the clip shared. We searched online with relevant keywords but no news regarding this appeared.

With the help of the InVid tool and reverse image search, we found this original video of Putin alongside the actual English transcription of his words.

Reverse image search led us to a video uploaded on YouTube by The National News on February 28, 2022. The video was uploaded with the caption, “Vladimir Putin calls the West an empire of lies.” The added description of this video read, “The Russian President was speaking to government officials about devastating sanctions imposed on his country.”

As per the original transcript, Putin said, “I invited you to talk about questions related to economy and finance. We have discussed this subject with the Russian Prime Minister, talking about the sanctions which the so-called Western community, as I call in my speech an ‘empire of lies’, tries to realise against our country.”

advertisement

The official YouTube channel of Euro News also uploaded the same video on February 28 with the description, “Russian President Vladimir Putin calls the West an ‘empire of lies’ at a meeting with economy officials, after western nations imposed a raft of sweeping sanctions on Moscow. Russia's ruble plunged nearly 30 per cent against the dollar earlier on Monday.”

Therefore, it is clear that the transcription was manipulated in the viral video. Putin did not speak about either Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, or about GilgitBaltistan.