The viral video does not show a massive landslide on Narayangarh-Kathmandu road in Nepal. The video is from Shimla, Himachal Pradesh in 2021.

A video showing a massive landslide due to which a part of the road can be seen collapsing within seconds. The users claim that this video is from Nepal showing a massive landslide at Narayangarh-Kathmandu road.

The caption of the post states, “This is the situation at Narayangarh on Kathmandu road.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

A Google reverse image search led us a news reported related to the video posted on 30 July 2021 by CNN News 18. The caption of the video states, “Road stretch collapses due to landslide on NH 707 in Himachal Pradesh”

According to the report, the video shows the visuals of a major landslide on NH-707. In this landslide, 100-meter stretch of road connecting Paonta Sahib with Shillai-Hatkoti (national highway 707) collapsed at Kali Dhank (Barwas) in Sirmaur district. No loss of life was reported in this incident while traffic had been blocked on this road.

This landslide was reported by several media organizations in 2021. The report states, the landslide in Himachal Pradesh’s Sirmaur district took away a huge portion of the mountain on National Highway 707. The incident also took away a section of the road, which connected Paonta Sahib. No casualties were reported in the landslide. The site was less than 30 kilometres from Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district. Sirmaur deputy commissioner Ram Kumar Gautam said travellers were alerted when they saw a minor landslide first and stopped their vehicles.

You can read them here and here.

Was there a landslide in Nepal recently?



According to news reports published on June 2022, the Narayanghat-Muglin road has been blocked due to a landslide triggered by rainfall. The spokesperson of District Police Office Narahari Adhikari said that the landslide occurred near the Namsi Bridge at Ichchhakamana-6, Topekhola in Chitwan obstructed two-way road traffic.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the video to be Partly False. The viral video does not show a massive landslide on Narayangarh-Kathmandu road in Nepal. The video shows an old incident that took place on 2021 in Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. However, it is true that there are reports of occurrence of landslides along the Narayangarh road in Nepal.