In the last month, prices of petrol and diesel were hiked almost daily. At the same time, tensions between Indian and Chinese troops flared up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.

Amid this, a viral post asks people not to create a fuss over price rise as the nation is on the verge of war. A 30-second video of a moving train loaded with military equipment accompanies the Hindi post, which translates to, “Friends, sense the situation and stop crying over petrol, diesel, potato, onion, coriander and mint. Hail Bharat Mata. The power of the Indian Army will certainly shock China.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is more than a year old and has no relation to the recent Indo-China tension.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. The post has been shared by many Facebook users.

AFWA probe

In the video, one can see it was shot at Nangloi in Delhi as the board suggests. Some of the train compartments have “MILITARY” written on them, meaning it was a military train carrying tanks, trucks and other equipment.

However, some elements in the video raise doubt regarding the authenticity of the claim. In the video, one can see a teenager in school uniform walking on the platform holding a notebook. Schools in Delhi have been shut since March. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s tweet in this regard can be seen here. The announcement went through several revisions but schools haven’t opened yet.

The Indo-China conflict began only in May.

Reverse-searching keyframes of the video using InVID tool, we found it was uploaded on Russian social media site “Ok.ru” on February 28, 2019. The Russian caption of the video translates to, “Indian tanks transported by rail.”

With the help of keyword search, we found the same video on YouTube as well, shared on February 25, 2019.

Conclusion

Multiple upward revisions in oil prices over the last month led to petrol increasing from Rs 71.26 per litre on June 5 to Rs 80.43 per litre on July 5. In the same period, the price of diesel surpassed petrol for the first time from Rs 69.39 per litre to Rs 80.53 per litre.

It is also true that tensions have erupted between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. But the video in the viral post asking people not to fuss over oil prices is more than a year old and not related to the present Indo-China face-off.