More than two months after Raksha Bandhan, a viral claim on social media says the director of medical education in Kerala, Dr Ramla Beevi, has banned celebrations in all government-run medical colleges in the state because it is a Hindu festival. The claim is viral with one of Beevi’s images in which she is seen donning a hijab.

The claim ays, “If you want religious neutrality so bad, then set a good example yourself and remove your hijab! Kerala Medical Education Director Dr Ramla Beevi bans Raksha Bandhan in Govt medical colleges as the festival is Hindu.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The circular issued by Beevi says celebrations in government medical colleges should be held with prior permission.

Some media outlets have carried articles on similar claims, which are also viral on Facebook

The archived versions can be seen here, here, here and here.

AFWA probe

On September 11, Beevi issued a circular in Malayalam stating that no celebrations such as Raksha Bandhan can be held in government-run medical colleges in Kerala without prior permission. The subject line of the circular loosely translates to, “About celebration of Raksha Bandhan in medical colleges”.

AFWA acquired a copy of the circular which talks about a particular incident where RSS had organised Raksha Bandhan in a state-run medical college without prior permission.

“A Raksha Bandhan celebration organised by RSS in one of the state-run medical colleges without prior permission has come to our notice and we have taken serious note of the matter,” the circular in Malayali says.

“We have already informed the institute concerned not to hold such celebrations without prior permission. In this context, all institution heads are to note that these celebrations can only be conducted in government medical colleges with prior permission from the institution head and government authorities,” it added.

The circular does not say a ban has been imposed on Raksha Bandhan.

For better clarity, AFWA contacted Beevi, who rubbished the viral claim and said, “Last year, there was a clash between two groups over Raksha Bandhan celebrations organised at a medical college in Ernakulam district.”

“During inquiry, it was revealed that the institution head was unaware about the event. Through this circular, we have only asked students to seek prior permission from institution heads before holding such events. We have not banned any celebration. Students can celebrate any festival they want,” Beevi added.

On October 6, “Times Now” published a news report on the controversy quoting CPI(M) leader AN Shamseer, who said no Hindu celebration has been banned and the order only seeks prior permission.

advertisement

Also, we couldn’t find any credible news report regarding a ban on Raksha Bandhan in Kerala.

Hence, it is clear that the viral claim saying Raksha Bandhan has been banned in all government medical colleges in Kerala because it is a Hindu festival is false. The government has only asked students to take prior permission before such celebrations.

Also read: Fact Check: Sitting in Pakistan, this fake China expert wants to ‘shutdown’ Indian Sukhoi!

Also read: Fact Check: Truth behind this tree carved in the shape of a giant hand