Ninety-year-old Margaret Keenan became the first recipient of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine in the UK on December 8. Soon after, a section of social media users began circulating a plethora of conspiracy theories around the event.

A story is being narrated about a crisis actor named Liz Scott who allegedly received the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine by impersonating Keenan. A crisis actor is a trained actor engaged to portray a disaster victim during emergency drills to train first responders such as police, fire-fighters, medical personnel, etc. Some netizens are also saying that Keenan died in 2008.

advertisement

Along with the crisis actor theory, a collage of pictures of a woman falling to the ground and Keenan receiving the vaccine shot is also being shared. The picture of the falling lady has the text, “Woman falls to the ground during Trafalgar Square protests”.

This collage suggests the possibility that the lady falling to the ground is Liz who enacted Keenan to get the first Covid-19 vaccine shot. In a nutshell, these theories suggest that the first Covid-19 vaccination event by Pfizer was staged.

A Facebook user shared pictures of Keenan, Liz and the falling lady with the caption, “Meet Liz Scott, a well-known crisis actor. Also showing her illuminati hand sign after she had her jab. Today she acted as a 90-year-old actor by the name of Margaret Keenan, a lady who died in 2008. But here she is taking the first c19 va x, live on TV for you to see.”

The archived version of the claim can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that there were no crisis actors during the vaccination and these are just baseless conspiracy theories.

Several Facebook users have made the same claim. Let’s look into the different aspects of this claim.

Who’s Margaret Keenan?

Keenan is a former jewellery shop assistant who retired four years ago, as per the official press release of the ‘United Kingdom National Health Service’.

After taking the vaccine, Keenan appeared in several media interviews like this one by “Reuters” dated December 8, which means she is very much alive. Thus, the claim of her passing away in 2008 is fictitious.

While in most photographs, Keenan is wearing a mask, in a tweet posted by “NHS England and NHS Improvement”, her face is clearly visible.

Does Liz resemble Keenan?

Taking a clue from pictures of Liz Scott shared in the viral claims, we found her profile on “starnow”, a casting platform for actors, models and musicians. Here, she has described herself as an actor, extra and model from London.

Comparing the two women, one can easily figure out that Liz is much younger than Keenan. Also, Liz has brown eyes, whereas Keenan has greyish eyes.

Lady who fell to the ground

advertisement

The picture of the lady falling to the ground, which has been shared in the viral claim, has the text, “Woman falls to the ground during Trafalgar Square protests”. On searching this text, we found a video report by “Daily Mail” dated September 27, 2020.

The woman is initially seen standing on a chair and she later falls down in a scuffle with policemen. The demonstration by anti-lockdown protesters took place in London’s Trafalgar Square. The picture of the lady used in the viral post is a screenshot from this video.

We found clear pictures of the same lady falling during the Trafalgar Square protests on “AFP Forum”. As per the caption of one of these pictures, the lady who fell to the ground was taking part in a protest against vaccination and restrictions against coronavirus. We could not trace the identity of this woman.

This woman can’t be Keenan since she supports Covid-19 vaccination, as she said in several of her interviews.

We compared the pictures of Liz and the anti-vaccine protester with Keenan and realised that all three look completely different.

Earlier, “PolitiFact” had also debunked the claim.

Thus, it is evident that baseless allegations of model Liz Scott playing crisis actor in Pfizer’s first Covid-19 vaccination in the UK are being circulated on social media.