A video clip featuring Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Maywati has gone viral with the claim that she recently announced her party would support the Bharatiya Janata Party — or any other party — in pursuit of defeating the Samajwadi Party in the soon-to-begin assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh.

Several people shared the viral clip featuring the BBC’s logo on Facebook and Twitter, claiming this to be a recent announcement. In the viral clip, Mayawati read out a statement in Hindi: “The BSP will do everything to defeat the SP's second candidate. And to do this, if it is required for our party MLAs to sacrifice their votes to the BJP — or any other party — we will even do that.”

advertisement

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room ( AFWA) found that this viral clip is from October 2020. At the time, Mayawati had said her party would vote for the BJP or any other party's candidate in the then-upcoming Uttar Pradesh MLC elections to defeat the SP's “second candidate.” In the ongoing election campaign in Uttar Pradesh, Mayawati has criticised both the BJP and the SP.

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA probe

Since the viral clip contained the BBC logo, with the help of keywords searches, we found the original video embedded in an article on the BBC website, published on November 2, 2020. This clip is over three minutes long.

The same viral clip was also tweeted by news agency ANI on October 29, 2020. The caption of the tweet read, “#WATCH BSP Chief Mayawati says that her party will vote for BJP or any party's candidate in future UP MLC elections, to defeat Samajwadi Party's second candidate. ‘Any party candidate, who'll be dominant over SP's 2nd candidate, will get all BSP MLAs' vote for sure,’ she said.”

#WATCH BSP Chief Mayawati says that her party will vote for BJP or any party's candidate in future UP MLC elections, to defeat Samajwadi Party's second candidate.



"Any party candidate, who'll be dominant over SP's 2nd candidate, will get all BSP MLAs' vote for sure," she said. pic.twitter.com/ki4W6ZAwgE — ANI (@ANI) October 29, 2020

This was reported by other news outlets and YouTube channels as well, around the same time.

As per these news reports, a few months before the polls to 12 Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council seats, to be held on January 28, 2021, Mayawati announced in October 2020 that her party would vote for any other political outfit, including the BJP, in order to ensure the defeat of the SP in the then-upcoming elections to the Upper House of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly, and the Rajya Sabha.

But Mayawati may not have the same views now. The BSP leader has attacked both the BJP and the SP in her recent election campaigns. As per news reports, on February 5, during a BSP election rally in Saharanpur, she has slammed both parties for their “anti-Dalit politics” and urged voters to support the BSP in the upcoming assembly elections and reject the BJP, the SP, and even the Congress.

advertisement

Hence, we conclude that this clip of Mayawati supporting the BJP is misleading, in the context of the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh.

READ | Youth from Bihar didn't hack into Google, nor was he offered Rs 3.66 cr job