Were Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru sentenced to death in Lahore on February 14, 1931? This is what some social media users are claiming as the world celebrates Valentine's Day today.

The message, both in Hindi and Bengali, has been shared by many Facebook users. One such caption says, "February 14 is not just Valentine's Day. On this day in 1931, Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru were sentenced to death in Lahore."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the judgment sentencing Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru to death was delivered by a Lahore court on October 7, 1930. They were hanged on March 23, 1931. February 14 has no significance in the entire case.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

Bhagat Singh's trial and martyrdom

Bhagat Singh's court trials and execution are well-documented. As per an article published in 2011 in "The Hindu", documents and records related to Bhagat Singh's trial have been digitised and curated in a museum by the Supreme Court of India in 2007.

Eminent legal scholar AG Noorani, in his book "The Trial of Bhagat Singh - Politics of Justice", captured each and every little detail of the trial of Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru. In his book, Noorani said the trio was sentenced to death on October 7, 1930.

A portion of the book reads, "Finally, on October 7, 1930 the Special Tribunal on the Lahore Conspiracy Case delivered judgment convicting all the accused except three who were acquitted-Ajoy Kumar Ghosh, Jatindra Nath Sanyal and Des Raj. Sentence was pronounced on the other twelve. Bhagat Singh, Sukh Dev and Rajguru were sentenced to death."

As per the website "shahidbhagatsingh.org", in his petition to the Punjab governor, Bhagat Singh had requested to be shot dead instead of being hanged.

In the petition, he wrote, " we were sentenced to death on 7th October 1930 by a British Court, L.C.C Tribunal, constituted under the Sp. Lahore Conspiracy Case Ordinance, promulgated by the H.E. The Viceroy, the Head of the British Government of India"

The same date is also referred to as the judgment day for the trio in other websites related to law and justice.

In 2015, several news websites reported about Bhagat Singh's death warrant that went viral. As per these reports, the warrant mentioned the judgment date as October 7, 1930.

Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru were executed in Lahore's Central Jail at 7.15 pm on March 23, 1931.

We have not found any documented evidence that indicates February 14 as a significant day in the entire trial.

Hence, it is confirmed that the viral claim saying Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru were sentenced to be hanged by a Lahore court on February 14, 1931, is not true.