A video of a group of women being escorted into a police vehicle has gone viral with the claim that they were arrested for pelting stones at a Ram Navami procession.

Multiple Facebook users have posted this video with a sarcastic Hindi caption that reads, “Farewell to the stone-throwing lioness on Ram navami”.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this video is not related to the recent Ram Navami communal violence. This 2020 Moradabad video shows medical professionals and cops escorting relatives of those who died from Covid-19 to a quarantine centre.

advertisement

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse image search, we confirmed that the viral video was uploaded on multiple YouTube channels in 2020. We have found the same viral video was uploaded on a Bengali YouTube Channel on April 16, 2020. It says the incident is from Moradabad.

Another YouTube channel, India Blooms News Service, uploaded a news clip with the same video but a longer version with more details on April 15, 2020.

The YouTube channel wrote in the description, “A team of doctors and medical staffers were attacked in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad town when they were visiting the area to escort the primary contacts of a COVID-19 positive patient, who died, to a quarantine facility on Wednesday.”

Just 25 seconds into the YouTube video we can see the viral position where women are being escorted into a police vehicle.

With the help of keyword search, we have also found several news articles on this Moradabad incident published in April, 2020. The same viral video can also be seen in the NDTV news clip.

This incident was also reported by India Today and The Hindu. Per these reports, a team of doctors, cops and other medical staff were attacked by the locals in Moradabad, in western Uttar Pradesh, when they went there to take primary contacts of a COVID-19 patient who died, to a quarantine facility.

Thus, we can conclude that an old, unrelated video has been passed off linking it with the recent communal violence during the Ram Navami.