Amid the ongoing slugfests between political rivals in poll-bound Rajasthan, the state is also afflicted by a swarm of viral videos and photos.

In a latest incident, some social media users shared photographs which claimed that former Rajasthan chief minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Gehlot said he will finish off Jats in Rajasthan.

Jats are among the prominent castes of Rajasthan and hold the key to the upcoming Assembly elections on December 7.

advertisement

At a simple glance, these photos look like screenshots of news channels. Interestingly, there are some other posts which make similar allegations against Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje.

India Today Fact Check team found that all these photos are morphed. We did not find any report where Gehlot or Raje spoke about "finishing off the Jat community".



These photos have been shared on several Facebook pages targeting both Raje and Gehlot.

The images appear to be screenshots of news channels such as India News Haryana TV and Times Now.

These posts in general convey political alienation and hatred towards the Jats in Rajasthan, and have messages like "will not allow any Jat CM" or "will finish off the Jats".

Just closer looks at these photos reveal that they are photoshopped. Some of them so poorly, that the photos are popping out of the television screen.

We contacted India News for confirmation. Ajay Shukla, chief editor of India News Haryana, said the logo of his channel in the image is correct but the text has been photoshopped. He claimed that the channel has never aired any such news.

Jats constitute about 15 per cent of the population in Rajasthan, holding a significant place for both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress in elections. Hence, it doesn't make any sense that these senior leaders will give such statements when both the parties are actually trying to woo the caste for votes.

(This Fact Check article is written in collaboration with Ekta News Coalition)

READ | With eyes on 2019, RSS and BJP look beyond caste

ALSO WATCH | Who are Jats and why are they protesting? All your questions answered