The viral video is scripted and created for “awareness, entertainment and educational” purpose which has been falsely shared with false communal claims.

A video showing few boys spiking the birthday cake of a girl and taking her inside the house when she is semi-conscious. Social media users claim that in the video, the group of boys belong to the Muslim community who are spiking the cake of Hindu girls and record their objectionable clips after making them unconscious in pursuit of love jihad. They further claim that these people use these videos to blackmail women and forcefully convert them. Thus, the video is being circulated with a communal and love jihad narrative. We can see burnt text on the video that states “Beware of Jihadi”.

Recently, Fact Crescendo has debunked several such videos, which went viral with false communal claims. Upon our investigation, we found that all these videos are scripted and apparently shared for public awareness. These scripted videos have been taken as a real life incident.

The caption of the video states, “These muslims are your friends, so see how they do jihad* jihad Ghazva e Hind makes sex clips of unconsciousness girl, then makes you sex slave, conversion and what you cannot even dream of *girls beware* wake up before it’s too late.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

This video is widely circulated on Facebook.

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by extracting key frames from the In-Vid We Verify tool and ran a reverse mage search on Google for the same.

The results led us to a longer version of the same viral video on YouTube posted on 13 December. A YouTube channel named “S.munusamy munusamy” has posted the video.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A3TLCZ2MBgU&ab_channel=S.munusamymunusamy

Upon carefully watching the video, we found a disclaimer at the end. The disclaimer reads, “Thank you for watching! Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for educational purposes only.”

The video was also posted by the verified account of Sanjjana Galrani on Facebook, which clearly states that the viral video is scripted and is created for entertainment and educative purpose.

The disclaimer on the video mentions, “Be careful. Thank you for watching! Please be aware that this page features scripted dramas and parodies as well. These short films are for entertainment & educational purposes only!

Her bio says that she shares scripted videos to spread awareness.

ALSO READ: Scripted Video Created For Awareness Shared With False Communal Claims

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the viral video on social media to be False. The viral video on social media does not show a real incident. The video is scripted and created to awareness and educate the society. The video is a fictional story. The video is being shared with a false narrative of Love Jihad.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)