The latest story that has left netizens amused is about a Sudanese model named Ayuol Manyok who apparently “got married to herself”. As per some social media posts and websites, Ayuol was so fed up with the phenomenon of men breaking her heart and lying to her that she decided to tie the knot with herself.

Sharing a picture of the Sudanese model in a white bridal gown, and holding a bouquet of flowers, a Facebook user wrote, “A South Sudanese lady based in Australia, Anyuol Manyok, has married herself claiming she is tired of men.”

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The viral image is from a bridal photo shoot and was originally shared by Ayuol on Twitter with a witty caption. Some people misinterpreted it and began spreading stories about her getting married to herself.

Several websites such as “Hot In Juba” and “Medium” have also published articles based on the claim. The archived versions of these articles can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

On December 1, Ayuol had tweeted the picture with the caption, “Sick of these niggas, so I made my own vows to myself”.

Sick of these niggas, so I made my own vows to myself pic.twitter.com/xvBufz4Ozd — Paramount Chief Toto (@AyuolManyok) December 1, 2020

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

After Ayuok posted this tweet, many people interpreted that she married herself as she was sick of other people. Later on, replying to a response by a Twitter user, she clarified that the picture was from a bridal photoshoot and the caption was “supposed to be witty”.

Girl, this is a bridal photoshoot I did, the caption is supposed to be witty — Paramount Chief Toto (@AyuolManyok) December 6, 2020

Speaking to the Australian fact check website AAP, Ayuok said, “I’m a model and fortunately model beautiful clothing. This was my first bridal wear shoot and the caption was an ode to choosing self, and self-love”.

However, she said that one aspect of the viral post is true. She explained, “I am tired of men though, the system that is patriarchy, and I’m tired of girls and women getting killed, subjugated and oppressed at the hands of men.”

Sologamy is a thing

There have, however, been several instances of people getting married to themselves. As per an Australian news website, the first person who became widely known for being engaged in the act of solo marriage was an American woman named Linda Barker. She tied the knot with herself in 1993. Similarly, Linda Doktar, a 35-year-old “self-connection coach” in Bali married herself on the Gold Coast in 2017.

Thus, it is clear that the claims of the Sudanese model Ayuol Manyok getting married to herself are false.