Has the Staff Selection Commission (SSC) introduced a new 'Tier-0' level exam to deal with heavy traffic on its servers? This is what some social media users are claiming based on an apparent SSC notice doing the rounds.

SSC recruits staff for different posts in various ministries and departments of the Government of India and in subordinate offices. For this, it conducts competitive examinations that have several stages or levels called 'tiers'.

advertisement

The SSC has recently published a notification for the 'Combined Graduate Level Examination, 2020'. This exam is held in four tiers - the first two online, and the rest offline.

Since then, a viral notice purportedly issued by SSC is doing the rounds on social media. It says, "In the view of increasing Load on SSC server , the commission has decided to introduce a new Tier named "Tier-0". This will be qualifying in nature. The Candidate can only apply For Jobs after qualifying it. Further details will be shared in due course."

A Twitter user wrote, "They have added a "TIER-0" in SSC exam. Only those students who can break through this server down stage will be eligible for TIER-1. Complete mental torture."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the notice which is being circulated on social media in the name of SSC is morphed. SSC has not issued any such notice.

Another Facebook user shared the viral notice with a caption in Hindi which translates to, "While UPSC is heading from tier 1 to tier 2, SSC has moved to tier 0. I'm clueless whether this should be called a step ahead or backward."

The archived version of this post can be seen here. Many Facebook users are sharing the notice with a dig at SSC.

AFWA investigation

We found that the font used in the viral notice is different from the one used in notices posted on the official website of SSC. Also, the text alignment in the viral notice is different from official SSC notices.

The notice in circulation has several grammatical errors as well, which is highly unlikely in an official order. This clearly means that the viral notice is morphed and has been created using a template of an original notice issued by SSC.

Even the Press Information Bureau (PIB) has called the viral notice "fake" and clarified that SSC has not issued any such notice.

advertisement

A notice allegedly issued by the SSC claims that due to the increasing load on SSC servers a new tier named 'Tier-0' has been introduced and candidates can only apply for jobs after qualifying it.#PIBFactCheck: This notice is #Fake. No such notice has been issued by the SSC. pic.twitter.com/nco7f7xw13— PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) January 6, 2021

No mention on SSC website

We did not find any such notice about the introduction of 'Tier-0' level examination on the official website of SSC.

While the viral notice is dated January 3, 2021, the last notice on the SSC website was issued on January 1. This notice is related to the last date for submitting online applications for 'Combined Graduate Level Examination, 2020'.

Speaking to India Today, an SSC official confirmed that no such notice related to introduction of 'Tier-0' level in the examination has been issued by SSC till now.

Coaching centres clueless about viral notice

SSC aspirants and coaching centres who closely follow latest developments and news related to the exam have also not heard about such a notice. A faculty in one such SSC coaching centre in Delhi, Baljeet Kaur, told AFWA, "As the last date for submitting online application approaches, many a times the server crashes. Due to this, at times, the last date is extended. But it is really strange that people are sharing such morphed notices. This creates confusion among students."

Thus, it is clear that a morphed notice is being circulated in the name of SSC. The commission has not come up with any such order about introduction of a 'Tier-0' level in the examinations to deal with increasing traffic on its servers.