Controversy and Navjot Singh Sidhu are the evergreen partnership keeping the political scoreboard ticking in poll season.

On social media too, this jodi scores well. This time, netizens have shared a photo collage which shows a man thrashing another man with a stick. In the photos, a huge crowd can be seen on street -- where some men are riding bikes with Congress flags tied on them.

Twitter user 'Chowkidar Hans Raj Hans' posted the photographs with the claim, "Imran Khan's brother Sidhu gets thrashed by patriot Punjabis. I salute those patriots who taught traitor Sidhu a lesson."

The tweet has been tagged to Navjot Singh Sidhu (@sherryontopp).

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the man getting beaten up in the viral image is not Sidhu. He is Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla.

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

This tweet was retweeted more than 650 times and liked by over 1,100 users at the last count.

These photos are also viral on Facebook with similar claims, where a few users even tried to portray it as a recent event.

Facebook users 'Uttam Sharma ABVP' and 'Modi Mission2019' have also shared these photos.

Looking closely at the picture, it is clear that the man being thrashed is not the man in turban riding the bike as the claim tries to refer. Rather, he is just an onlooker. The man, who was beaten up, is the one lying on the road.

Upon a simple reverse search of the viral photos, we discovered that the man in the turban is not Sidhu but Gurjeet Singh Aujla.

According to media reports, in September, 2016, Congress workers were attacked by a group of people during a motorcycle rally at Ajnala in Punjab. District Congress Committee (Rural) chief Gurjeet Aujla was leading the rally when the attack took place.

The Ajnala police booked a few people under several Sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Many prominent media houses had covered the incident.

One of the viral images has been used in this article with the caption, "The Congress [rural] district president Gurjeet Singh Aujla [on bike] and other workers being attacked during the motorcycle rally conducted at Ajnala."

Screenshot of one of the viral images has been used in this article

It is clear that viral images are not just three years old, but the man being thrashed (as the claim says) is not Sidhu but Gurjeet Singh Aujla.