Nupur Sharma’s controversial comments on the Prophet Muhammad have led to a number of FIRs and continued demands for her arrest on social media. Amid this, many shared a video claiming that this is exactly what happened.

The video features a small group of women and cops. There are a few versions of this video. One of them features a man in a parallel video proving commentary, where he claimed the viral clip showed Sharma getting arrested after absconding. Another version of the video features just a voiceover that makes similar claims.

advertisement

The video shows the woman being held by other women as she tries to move ahead towards a barricade. Many policemen were seen in the video.

A screen grab from the viral video.

AFWA found that this video was from a protest held by farmers in Rajasthan’s Churu. The woman seen in the video is Bhumi Birmi, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Non-political) leader, not Nupur Sharma. Archived versions of similar posts can be seen.

AFWA PROBE

While it was reported that the now-suspended Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson asked for a four-week extension to appear before the Kolkata Police owing to alleged threats against her life, there are no reports about her getting arrested.

Subsequently, we tried to get the source of the viral video. We observed that the badge worn by the police officers in the video resembled that of the Rajasthan police.

Following this, we reached out to India Today’s Rajasthan bureau for clarity on the matter. Our correspondent Vijay Chouhan said this video was from a farmers' protest held in front of the SDM office in Taranagar in Churu, Rajasthan on June 15. Chouhan, who was present at the event, said that the woman in the video is Bhumi Birmi, a Bhartiya Kisan Union (Non-political) leader.

A video of the incident in Churu sent by Chouhan can be seen below.

We found multiple similarities between this video which was shot from a different angle and the viral one, especially in terms of the people present there.

We further reached out to Bhumi Birmi. Speaking to India Today, she confirmed that the woman in the video was her. Birmi said that she was not arrested during the incident and added that Sharma was not present during the protest.

According to Birmi, thousands of farmers had gathered at the SDM office on the 99th day of their dharna with 20 demands, including crop insurance claims. When the protestors tried to break the barricades, police resorted to lathi-charging.

A longer version of the now-viral video was uploaded by Birmi on her Facebook account on June 15.

We also found that multiple media outlets had reported the incident. Birmi’s name was mentioned in these reports.

It is hence clear that the woman seen in the viral video is not Nupur Sharma, but Bhartiya Kisan Union (Non-political) leader Bhumi Birmi. This incident — a farmers’ protest — has nothing to do with Sharma’s comments.

(With inputs from Vijay Chouhan and Sanjana Saxena)