A disturbing photo of shoes floating on what seems like a pool of blood is circulating on social media with the claim that it was taken after the blast near Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul on August 26, 2021.

At least 170 people, including American soldiers, have been killed in the attack claimed by the Islamic State - Khorasan, forcing retaliatory strikes by the United States.

advertisement

"Flood of Blood in Kabul. Kabul is bleeding again. Remember God is watching," reads the claim along with the viral picture.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the picture to be misleading. The picture was taken on February 10, 2017, when a group of protesters dyed the Kabul River red to symbolise the record number of civilian deaths in the country.

AFWA probe

A reverse image search led us to a Persian website called "otaghkhabar24.com" where we found the same picture used in a post. Three more photographs were published in the same report.

We used an online translation tool to find what the content says in Persian. According to the translation, these photos were taken when a group of protesters organised a symbolic protest against mass casualties of Afghan civilians. The protesters used dye to turn a part of the Kabul River red.

Taking a cue from this, we used a keyword search and found another article on the Persian website "af.shafaqna.com" where the same photograph was used.

However, we could not confirm the exact date and year of the movement from the reports published in these two websites. To find these details, we carried out a reverse search on another photo used in the same report by "otaghkhabar24.com". We found this photo on a Portuguese website named "exame.com".

Translating this report, we found that the protest was organised on February 10, 2017, a week after the United Nations claimed 11,400 Afghan civilians were killed or injured in 2016 in the civil war. The protesters used 200 kilos of paint to turn a part of the Kabul River red.

We found a YouTube video report dated February 11, 2017, on the protest. It said the movement was named "Afghanistan 1400" and was led by activist Shaharzad Akbar. "We thought of symbolising the casualties in Afghanistan and nothing better could visualise it better than a flood of blood," Shaharzad had said.

advertisement

Shaharzad is presently the chairperson of Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission.

Some pictures of the deadly blast outside Kabul airport on August 26 can be seen here.

Hence, we can confirm that the picture in circulation is in no way related to the recent terror attack.