In the middle of the ongoing debate on Ram Mandir, some images are being widely circulated with the claim that bricks brought to build the temple in Ayodhya are being used for the construction of drains by the Uttar Pradesh government.







Viral pictures show bricks with 'Shri Ram' inscribed on it being used to construct drains. The claim with the images reads: "Jo eente Ram Mandir ke naam par ikattha ki gai thi vo ab UP sarkar ke chahete thekedaar dwara Ayodhya me naali banana ke upyog me aa rahi hai hai... dharmik aastha ka vyavasik istemaal karna koi BJP se seekhe" (The bricks which were collected to build the Ram-Mandir, are now being used by UP Government's favorite contractors for the construction of drains in Ayodhya. How to commercially use the religious faith should be learnt from BJP.)

advertisement

Also Read | Fact Check: PM Modi didn't lend his voice in this viral 'Katyayani mantra'

India Today Fact Check found that the images are not from Ayodhya, and the bricks shown in the viral pictures were never brought to build the Ram Mandir. These images are from Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur.

The images with false claim are floating on the Internet for the last few days and have been shared in thousands on social media.





Our Shahjahanpur correspondent Vinay Pandey found the exact location of the image. He confirmed that the viral picture is from the Station Road area of Shahjahanpur.

Here is the video of the same area.

We came to know that these bricks were supplied from a local brick kiln by the name of 'Shri Ram Khanna and Company'. The brick kiln owner and supplier, Ashok Kumar Khanna, confirmed that he is in the brick manufacturing business for the last 35 years. My father’s name is Shri Ram Khanna and that’s why we inscribe Shri Ram’ on the bricks, he said.

The local unit of Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) has raised objection over the use of 'Shri Ram bricks' for the construction of the drains in the area.

India Today contacted Acharya Satyendra Das, the head priest of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. He completely denied the claim that the bricks collected to build the temple in Ayodhya are being used elsewhere. This is completely false. During Shila Poojan programme in 1989, bricks from different states and countries were brought in Ayodhya to build the Ram Mandir," said Acharya Das.

Shri Ram was indeed written and inscribed on these bricks in various languages and different styles. The bricks can be seen in the karyashala (workshop) which are completely protected and will be used to build the Ram Mandir," he added.

The original bricks kept in Ayodhya to build the temple can be seen here in the video.

Since 1990, the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas in Ayodhya is also stocking up carved stones for the construction of the temple.

VHP media-in-charge of Ayodhya Sharad Sharma also called this viral claim fake. In one of the comments to this viral post on Facebook, Sharma refuted saying that the original bricks kept for the Ayodhya temple are quite old in comparison to the bricks in the images.

advertisement

India Today established that the bricks shown in the viral images has nothing to do with the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.

With inputs from Vinay Pandey in Shahjahanpur and Banbir Singh in Ayodhya

Also Read | Fact Check: Viral video claiming "BJP worker caught with beef in Gujarat" is false

Also Read | Fact Check: Did Congress leader Kapil Sibal get slapped outside the court?