A video of a man bleeding profusely, held by two policemen and being interrogated by a Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel, is doing rounds on the social media.

The man is wearing an orange-coloured T-shirt and according to the claim made by a Twitter user, he sports a tilak on his forehead. By giving this description along with the video, the user tries to imply how the TMC goons in the garb of "bhagwa goons" were involved in the violence that broke out during the roadshow of BJP president Amit Shah in Kolkata on May 14.

advertisement Real Name - Mohammad Nisar

Orange T-shirt,

Tilak on Forhead

Now you can understand many things



You can also connect this to the so called "Bhagwa Goons" doing Violence during Amit Shah Road Show in Kolkata,



They were all TMC Goons pic.twitter.com/AkkRZNnJwF ravi singh (@mitthu) May 16, 2019

Most social media users took the video literally, believing that the video was from the recent Kolkata violence. At the time of filing this story, this tweet gathered more than 7,500 retweets and around 8,400 likes.

India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is about a week-old and is from Jharkhand's Jamshedpur, not West Bengal.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Twitter user Ravi Singh uploaded the video with the caption, "Real Name - Mohammad Nisar Orange T-shirt, Tilak on Forhead (sic). Now you can understand many things. You can also connect this to the so called 'Bhagwa Goons' doing Violence during Amit Shah Road Show in Kolkata, They were all TMC Goons."

As his tweet attracted controversy followed by the blame game between the TMC and BJP, Ravi defended saying he had never claimed that the video is from Kolkata.

DONT BE A FOOL



I haven't said this video from Kolkata



This is just an example, Orange Tshirt, Tilak doesn't mean Hindu or a worker of BJP-RSS



its easy nowdays to defame Hindus, Hindu organizations with fake hindu getup, many Left secular organizations and jihadists doing this ravi singh (@mitthu) May 17, 2019

The video is also viral on Facebook.

We spotted a comment in the Twitter thread by a user @madhu_ganeriwal. He mentioned that the video is of the incident that took place in Jamshedpur on May 12 when two groups got into a scuffle over elections.

Chowikidar Madhu (%follow back) (@madhu_ganeriwal) May 17, 2019

To confirm the incident, we ran a search on the internet and found a news bulletin video of News18 which reported about the clashes in Jamshedpur's Jugsalai. At 2 minute and 19 second, the same man can be seen detained by police. On the May 12 voting day, a scuffle broke out in Jugsalai and local police had to fire tear gas shells and lathicharge to control the situation.

advertisement

We also found the news report in Times of India according to which the clashes broke out between the BJP and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) workers outside the polling booth in Jugsalai. Two accused were also arrested. Boomlive also debunked the claim.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video is not from West Bengal but Jamshedpur.