Nearly a month since the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, social media is still abuzz with discussions around Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Among these is a video of him delivering a speech in Parliament that also showed AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi. While sharing this video, several users have claimed that Owaisi sat down quietly after Yogi lashed out at him.

In the 24-second-long viral video, Yogi is seen speaking in Hindi when Owaisi attempts to interrupt him. Yogi can be heard saying, "Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore said if one needs to understand India." when the Hyderabad MP gets up. In the next frame, Yogi is shown lashing out at Owaisi, saying "Baith Jaiye Aap," which means "just sit down."

advertisement

In no time, Owaisi settles back to his seat as if obeying an instruction as a Punjabi background score starts playing. Owaisi's words are hardly audible anywhere in the video.

One such post can be seen below:

Archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading as the video has been edited. Two sequences that are at least three minutes apart are merged to fit the narrative that Yogi was able to silence Owaisi.

AFWA Probe

Before taking over as the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh in March 2017, Adityanath was an MP from Gorakhpur five times in a row. So, it can be assumed that the video is from that period.

We ran some keywords and found the original full-length video uploaded by the official YouTube channel of the BJP. It was uploaded on August 14, 2014, which indicated this speech to be from the monsoon session of the parliament.

In that full-length video, Yogi can be heard starting his speech by attacking Mallikarjun Kharge, the then Lok Sabha leader of the Congress party. The viral part where he allegedly shouts at Owaisi comes 10 minutes into the video (10.20).

However, we observed that Adityanath was not interrupted by Owaisi. Rather, before and after this heated moment at 10.27 where he shouts "baith jaiye aap," the camera turns to the bench of Congress MPs who stood up and went vocal in protest against Yogi’s address.

The part where Owaisi is trying to say something with a book in his hand comes almost 3 minutes after this scene.

At the mark of 13.30, Owaisi stood up for the first time, interrupting Yogi’s speech and accusing the BJP MP of producing wrong figures regarding the casualties of the riots. But the then deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha, Dr M Thambidurai, demanded that Owaisi remain seated--an instruction that he followed. Owaisi can be seen settling back into his seat at around 14.05.

Thambidurai then stood up to take control and advised Owaisi to speak on the matter when his turn came. The AIMIM leader can be seen trying to argue further, but he was not audible as his microphone stopped working. After that, the deputy speaker asks Yogi to continue his speech.

We also found a news report published in the Economic Times on August 14, 2014, about Yogi's speech in parliament. It noted that the then MP from Gorakhpur alleged the Congress of conspiring to split India again at the behest of Pakistan.

Thus, it becomes clear that Yogi was shouting at the Congress MPs and not at Owaisi when he said "baith jaiye aap."