Eighteen-year-old Anurag Poddar was killed after Bihar police allegedly opened fire amid a clash over a delay in Durga Puja immersion in Munger on Monday, October 26. A viral message on social media now claims that owing to the death of her only son, the mother of the victim suffered a cardiac arrest and died as well.

Multiple users on Twitter and Facebook are now claiming that his mother is no more.

advertisement

On such caption read: “The biggest burden of the world is a son’s coffin on a father’s shoulder. A mother could not bear the death of her young son. Mother of Anurag Poddar suffered a heart attack & died. I wonder how this killer Lipi Singh will redeem her soul. Family completely devastated.”

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found that the viral claim regarding the death of Poddar’s mother is a hoax. Poddar’s mother, Poonam Devi did not suffer a heart attack. Poonam Devi, though mentally shattered after the death of her son, otherwise is physically fine.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, here and here.

AFWA PROBE

Since no credible media source reported Poonam Devi’s death, several users on Twitter too were suspicious about the viral claim.

India Today contacted the bereaved Poddar family in Munger. Anurag’s father Amarnath Poddar confirmed that the news is a hoax and his wife has not suffered a heart attack. “Anurag was our only son after four daughters. My wife is completely broken mentally, always crying. But she has no physical issues so far,” Amarnath told India Today.

According to Prabhat, one of their neighbours who India Today contacted, Anurag’s mother though devastated after the death of her only son, is physically not unwell.

WHAT HAPPENED

Days before Bihar witnessed the first phase of Assembly polling, Munger witnessed stone-pelting and firing during clashes that took place over the delay of the "Badi Ma Durga" idol immersion in the district.

Over two dozen people including security personnel were injured in the clashes. Poddar was shot dead during the incident. A disturbing image of Poddar’s mother carrying his lifeless body in her lap, with his head split wide open, was circulating on social media.

Amid violent protests in Munger against the police firing that led to Poddar’s death, the Election Commission on Thursday (October 29) ordered the immediate removal of the Munger Superintendent of Police (SP) and District Magistrate (DM).

But the social media claim about the death of Anurag Poddar’s mother in Munger is completely false.

advertisement

Also read: Fact Check: No, this crowd protesting against BJP is not from Bihar election campaigns

Also read: Fact Check: This viral '1950s public service announcement' on Covid-19 is not what it seems