As the curtains fell on the Congress party's three-day Chintan Shivir in Udaipur, Rajasthan, on Sunday, May 15, many on social media criticised the party over the choice of colours at the venue of the event.

People alleged that the roof of the tent that hosted the meet was green and white — resembling the national flag of Pakistan, while the carpet on the floor was saffron. "Both colours of the Pakistan flag above and saffron on the floor! This is a picture of the Congress Party's Chintan Shivir in Udaipur, Rajasthan," one such tweet read.

advertisement

Similar claims have been archived here ( ), here, and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim was misleading. The roof of the tent incorporated all three shades of the Indian national flag.

AFWA Probe

The Chintan Shivir of the Congress Working Committee, organised to chart the party's plans ahead, was extensively covered by the party’s social media accounts and the news media.

We found several photos from the venue of the event updated on the party’s social media accounts. A photo tweeted on May 15 showed the party president Sonia Gandhi being greeted by the attendees of the meet and showed her walking on a carpet that was more reddish than the deep saffron of the national flag.

However, because the carpet appeared saffron in some other photos, we reached out to Shesh Narayan Ojha, the national secretary of the Indian Youth Congress.

"The claim is completely false. The pandal (tent) was of Tricolour and the carpet used on the floor was pure red. Carpets that are generally used at weddings and other gatherings are either green or red. In our case, it was the red one," he told India Today.

Ojha shared an image of the carpet from a closer angle that confirmed that it was red and not saffron.

Similarly, we also found other tweets in which saffron-coloured cloth on the ceiling of the venue couldbe seen alongside the white and green ones.

United, reformed, rejuvenated, and stronger; the Congress has a Nav Sankalp.



Visuals from Shri @RahulGandhi's valedictory address at the concluding session of the #NavSankalpShivir. pic.twitter.com/abOzU7BQYE — Congress (@INCIndia) May 15, 2022

Congress President Smt. Sonia Gandhi presides over a meeting of AICC General Sectaries, In-charges, PCC Presidents & CLPs. #NavSankalpShivir pic.twitter.com/nEtSY6UWcd — All India Mahila Congress (@MahilaCongress) May 14, 2022

We reached out to India Today camera person Pawan Kumar, who was among the crew that covered the Chintan Shivir. Given below are the images and video he shared from the venue that showed the ceiling decoration was an attempt to replicate the Tricolour.

This confirmed beyond doubt that the Congress Chintan Shivir didn't use the colours of the Pakistan flag to beautify the ceiling of their event while using a saffron-coloured carpet on the floor.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal in New Delhi)