Amid recent tension in West Bengal, a video claiming to be from the state is circulating on social media in which a group of men can be seen brutally thrashing a boy.

In the video, a young boy is seen tied to a tree and some men are beating him with belts. It is being claimed that the boy was beaten up for hoisting a saffron flag atop his house.

advertisement This is the position of Hindus in West Bengal. This Hindu boy hoisted saffron flag atop his house.

Forwarded by LT Col Dilip Kumar Havanur.

The day is not too far every Hindu crusified like this boy.

Share it maximum to reach every Hindu. pic.twitter.com/X941quhLKH mallesham gonda (@malleshamgonda) May 16, 2019





India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is from 2018, and the incident is not from West Bengal but Uttar Pradesh's Deoria. The actual incident happened over a money dispute.

Among many, the post is shared by Twitter user Chowkidar Jagdish Sethi who later deleted his tweet.

The video is doing the rounds on Facebook as well. The message with the video reads: "This is the position of Hindus in West Bengal. This Hindu boy hoisted saffron flag atop his house. Forwarded by LT Col Dilip Kumar Havanur. The day is not too far every Hindu crucified like this boy. Share it maximum to reach every Hindu."

With the help of In-Vid tool, we found a news report of The Indian Express, according to which the incident took place in UP's Deoria in March 2018.

As per the report, the victim was identified as Shamshad who had lent Rs 1,500 to one Nasir. Both of them had quarrelled over money matter and Nasir with his friends assaulted Shamshad at an isolated place. Later, police arrested six accused in the case. News agency ANI also reported this issue.

Deoria: Miscreants tied youth to a tree & thrashed him after he asked them for the money lent by him. Video of the incident went viral, Police took cognizance & arrested one accused, say, 'Main accused arrested, 4 others in video have been identified & are absconding.'(28.3) pic.twitter.com/1IjLIm4rtw ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) March 30, 2018





The video with the same claim went viral last year too. At that time, Boomlive debunked this fake news.

Disclaimer: The video shows violence which some people may find disturbing.