The just-concluded Maharashtra assembly elections witnessed members of powerful families turning against each other. One such battle was within the family of BJP leader late Gopinath Munde. Contesting from Parli assembly constituency, Gopinath Munde's daughter and sitting MLA Pankaja Munde was pitted against her own cousin Dhananjay Munde from NCP.

As results of the elections started trickling in early on Thursday morning, social media users claimed Pankaja burst out crying after losing. An image of a distraught Pankaja did the rounds on social media and some websites too claimed the same.

advertisement

Facebook page "Courageous India" uploaded a photo of a distraught Pankaja and said, "Maharashtra's Women & Child Development Minister Pankaja Munde was in tears after she lost by 22,000 votes from Parli constituency to his cousin and NCP's Dhananjay Panditrao Munde. Both Amit Shah and Narendra Modi had campaigned for her."

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this particular image of Pankaja is from October 20, much before counting day in Maharashtra. It is a grab from a television interview she gave to a regional channel.

Many Facebook users have shared the same claim. In fact, news portals such as News 24 carried the same claim with the picture of Pankaja that is being widely shared on social media.

The archived version of the website can be seen here.

AFWA probe

The viral image of Pankaja has a boom mike of Tv9 channel which means the claim of her breaking down after losing took place in the middle of an interview. AFWA searched the YouTube channel of Tv9 Marathi and found a number of videos of the BJP leader in the last few days.

On detailed search, it was found that Pankaja had given an interview to the channel on October 20 in which she was wearing a yellow salwar kurta. Her expression as seen in the viral photo can be seen here in the link. Pankaja at that point was talking about how she felt after watching the viral video of her cousin and adversary Dhananjay Munde passing obscene comments about her.

In the news clipping, Pankaja is saying, "Twice or thrice that video flashed before my eyes. That anger, that disdain, those expressions hurt me a lot. It took me two days to come out of that. I was wondering how I will face people. I lost my confidence. But some women met me and encouraged me."

NCP had later claimed that the viral video of Dhananjay Munde was edited and a case was registered at Parli against unknown people. The video of Pankaja conceding defeat on October 24 can be seen here where she can be seen wearing a pink salwar kurta.

Voting in Maharashtra took place on October 21 and the results were declared on October 24. Therefore, it can be said that the viral image of Pankaja Munde being shared on social media as her breaking down after losing in the election is old.