Videos related to Kashmir are still viral on social media. But several of them are posted with dubious claims.

Recently a video of tear gas shelling by police has gone viral on Facebook with the claim that it is from Kashmir.

The claim

A Facebook page titled "BBC News Kashmir" posted a video on October 3, 2019, with the caption " Police use teargas to disperse student protesters.......#kashmirnews #freedom #newskashmir."

advertisement

There is a red and white logo written "BBC News Kashmir" present at the top right corner of the viral video.

The archived version of the post is saved here.

The truth

India Today Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim. The video is not from Kashmir but from Jakarta, Indonesia. The logo "BBC News Kashmir" is photoshopped.

The Facebook post has already been shared by more than 1500 people till the time of writing this article.

AFWA probe

The more than 3-minute long video begins with a frame where the policemen in armor are ready for a battle along with protection shields written "Polisi".

Police in Indonesian language is called "Polisi".

After a minute in the video, a man is seen waving a red and white flag.

This is the national flag of Indonesia.

National Flag of Indonesia

With the help of keyword search, we found the exact video on YouTube, posted by Russian International Television Network (RT) on October 1, 2019, with the caption " Riot police use teargas to disperse student protest in Indonesia" .

International media has reported widely about the recent unrest in Indonesia against the new corruption law and proposed criminal code, which has criminalised sex outside marriage.

On October 1, 2019, protesters battled with police in Jakarta where police had to resort to tear gas shelling. This report can also be seen here done by BBC news.

The logo in the name of " BBC News Kashmir" is photoshopped. The British Broadcasting Corporation, has no such logo called "BBC News Kashmir".

There is a Facebook page called "BBC news Kashmir", which has no relation with the British Broadcasting Corporation.

The conclusion

The viral post in the name of Kashmir is entirely misleading. The video is from Indonesia and the media logo used in the name of BBC is photoshopped.