A post circulating on social media claims that Union Home minister Amit Shah has renamed Andaman and Nicobar Islands as Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Islands.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Shah has not made any such announcement. However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018 had renamed one of the islands in the archipelago of Andaman and Nicobar as Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Island.

advertisement

AFWA probe

Amit Shah was on a three-day visit to Andaman and Nicobar recently. However, we could not find any report about the Home minister renaming the union territory that has around 40 inhabited islands.

We could not find such an announcement in any press release by the Ministry of Home Affairs either.

However, we found two-year-old media reports on the renaming of some islands in Andaman and Nicobar. According to these reports, PM Modi in December 2018 had renamed Ross Island as Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Dweep. He had also renamed Neil Island as Shaheed Dweep and Havelock Island as Swaraj Dweep.

The renaming was done as a tribute to Netaji on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of his Tricolour hoisting at Port Blair.

Shah in Andaman and Nicobar

According to an MHA press release, on October 16, Shah inaugurated and laid foundation stones of various development projects from Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Island in Andaman and Nicobar.

During the event, Shah also spoke about Modi renaming the Rose Island after Netaji.

“For years, attempts were made to downplay many well-known leaders of the Independence Movement and their contributions. But now the time has come that everyone should find their proper place in history, those who contributed and sacrificed their lives, they should find their proud place in history, and that is why Prime Minister Modi decided to name this island after Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose,” the Home Minister was quoted as saying.

Hence, it is clear that the central government has not renamed Andaman and Nicobar Islands as Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Islands. In 2018, one of the islands in the Union territory was renamed after Netaji.