The Indian Railways has been operating Shramik Special trains to help migrants reach their hometowns during the lockdown. Amid this, a video of an overcrowded train, with people cramming even the rooftops, is going viral on social media. The claim along with the video says this is a train carrying migrants from Mumbai to West Bengal.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is around two years old and from Bangladesh.

advertisement

Among others, Facebook user Abdul Azeem Uzair shared the video with the caption, “Hukumat Aur Bhakts Kay Pass Insaniyat Nahin Hai, But U SHOULD SALUTE THOSE CO-PASSENGERS WHO FOR SURE TAKE CARE OF EACH OTHER...Esp Those Sitting on Rooftop.. (MIGRANTS TRAIN MUMBAI _ TO WEST BENGAL - 10May2020”.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Upon reverse-searching one of the frames of the viral clip, we found a video on YouTube with the title, “Most Crowded Train in the World- Bangladesh Railway”. The video was posted on February 24, 2018. One can see the viral part from 18 seconds in the video.

The video description says it was a special train called “Bishwa Ijtema Special Train 2018”. It was run by Bangladesh Railways on the occasion of Bishwa Ijtema in 2018. Bishwa Ijtema is one of the biggest annual gatherings of Muslims in Bangladesh. This three-day event is observed by devotees on the banks of River Turag in Tongi.

Shramik Special trains

Stranded due to the lockdown, migrant labourers were demanding arrangements for their journey back home. Without jobs, money or food, lakhs of migrants across India took off on foot or cycles to reach their homes hundreds of kilometres away. It was then that the Indian Railways decided to operate Shramik Special trains to ferry migrants home.

Trains were also scheduled from Mumbai to Bengal, but the Mamata Banerjee government was reportedly not allowing them to enter the state. It, however, later allowed some trains to terminate in the state.

According to railway guidelines, a Shramik Special train with 24 coaches can only carry 1,700 people to maintain social distancing. Earlier, only 1,200 people were allowed on these trains. So these trains cannot be overcrowded in any case.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral video is two years old and from Bangladesh. It has nothing to do with India or its migrant crisis.