A video of a mammoth bell has gone viral on social media with the claim that this 2,100-kg bell made of 'ashtadhatu' will be installed at the Ram temple in Ayodhya and it can be heard from 15 km away.

Several users on Twitter and Facebook are sharing the 30-second clip showing a craftsman checking the sound of the bell, believing that it is almost ready to be installed.

advertisement Ram Mandir bell is almost ready; single cast piece, easily the largest, 6’X5’, weighing 2,100kg made of "Ashtadhatu", a combination of eight metals -- gold, silver, copper, zinc, lead, tin, iron and mercury. This bell can be heard up to 15Km. #JaiShriRampic.twitter.com/ulT1BTOdZ7 — Hindustani Ladka (@HindustaniLad11) September 23, 2020

The caption reads, "Ram Mandir bell is almost ready; single cast piece, easily the largest, 6'X5', weighing 2,100kg made of "Ashtadhatu", a combination of eight metals - gold, silver, copper, zinc, lead, tin, iron and mercury. This bell can be heard up to 15Km. #JaiShriRam".

Ram Mandir bell is almost ready; single cast piece, easily the largest, 6’X5’, weighing 2,100kg made of "Ashtadhatu", a combination of eight metals -- gold, silver, copper, zinc, lead, tin, iron and mercury. This bell can be heard up to 15Km. #JaiShriRam@LostTemple7 pic.twitter.com/8F3LSjbrIV — Ankita (@AnkitaBnsl) September 23, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is of a bronze bell weighing 600 kg, made in Tamil Nadu for the Ayodhya Ram temple. The main bell of the temple, weighing 2,100 kg, is being forged at Jalesar in Etah district of Uttar Pradesh.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

Tracking the bell

Text superimposed on the video in Tamil language loosely translates to, "The bell weighing 600 kg is to be shipped from Ramakrishna Nadar pottery shop in Eral."

Using InVID and reverse image search, we found several articles in Tamil news websites related to the bell.

Translating these articles from Tamil, we learnt that the bell seen in the viral video weighs 600 kg and was made at the Ramakrishna Nadar pottery shop in Eral taluka of Thoothukudi district in Tamil Nadu. The bell is meant for the Ayodhya Ram temple.

Searching with relevant keywords, we found the shop's contact in "Justdial", whose details also show the image of the large bronze bell as seen in the viral video.

Upon contacting the shop over phone, the co-owner Latha confirmed to us that the 600-kg bronze bell was indeed built by them. She said it was made based upon an order from the Ayodha Ram temple committee and has already being dispatched for its destination a week back.

advertisement

"This is not the largest bell of the Ayodhya Ram temple. We made only the 600-kg bell as per the order. The largest one is being made in Uttar Pradesh itself," Latha added.

The largest bell for the Ram temple at Ayodhya, which as per news reports weighs 2,100 kg, is being made at Jalesar town in Etah district of Uttar Pradesh.

Hence, it is confirmed that the viral video showing a huge bell is not the largest one weighing 2,100 kg and made of 'ashtadhatu' to be installed at the Ayodhya Ram temple. The bronze bell seen in the video weighs 600 kg and has already being sent from Tamil Nadu for Ayodhya.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: The truth about Tablighi Jamaat celebrating PM Modi's birthday inside Nizamuddin Markaz

ALSO READ | Fact Check: This image of Ambedkar on a bus in the 'United States' is morphed

ALSO READ |