Various farmers' organisations had called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 against the recent farm laws, which they allege will leave them at the mercy of industrialists. Almost all major Opposition parties, including the Congress, lent support to the bandh.

The protest against the farm laws is majorly led by farmers' unions from Punjab. Amid this, netizens are sharing a picture of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and industrialist Mukesh Ambani while taking a dig at Congress. They say Amarinder Singh met Ambani a day before Bharat Bandh to discuss investment projects in Punjab at a time Congress is supporting the farmers' movement against alleged corporatisation of agriculture.

advertisement

The caption in Hindi along with one such image translates to, "One day before the Bharat Bandh, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh met Mukesh Ambani in Mumbai. He has already supported Amit Shah's proposals on farmers' protest. The CM said he had a discussion with Ambani on investment projects for Punjab. On one hand, Congress is supporting farmers' agitation and Bharat Bandh, and on the other hand, the Punjab CM is meeting Ambani. What kind of politics is this?"

Many Opposition leaders have alleged that the new farm laws are widely in favour of industry leaders such as Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The photo is from a 2017 meeting between Captain and Ambani. There are no recent reports on the two meeting.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA PROBE

With the help of reverse image search, we found the same image tweeted by Captain from his official Twitter handle on October 31, 2017.

Happy to meet Mukesh Ambani Ji in Mumbai. Hope to discuss various investment and industrial development opportunities for Punjab. pic.twitter.com/L3xiiBCZds — Capt.Amarinder Singh (@capt_amarinder) October 31, 2017

We also found several media reports on the meeting. According to the Hindustan Times, on October 31, 2017, the Punjab CM met Ambani in Mumbai for a one-to-one meeting. This meeting was followed by delegation-level talks with Reliance on industrial opportunities for Punjab.

We also found a video report of the meeting uploaded on the YouTube channel of Zee on October 31, 2017.

Also, we could not find any credible report on the Punjab CM meeting Ambani recently. On December 3, he had met Union Home minister Amit Shah demanding an early solution to end the ongoing farmers' protest.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral image of Amarinder and Ambani is from 2017 and not a recent one.