Allegations of booth-capturing and EVM-rigging continue to spread on social media following the sweeping electoral victory of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh.

A video of a news clip went viral along with the claim that voters were influenced by the BJP’s polling agents in booths in UP.

The clip featured a reporter talking to a group of women who complained that a polling agent named Giriraj forced them to press the button with the BJP’s Lotus symbol.

advertisement

Sir, This is what u are talking about, #BOOTH capturing



Dear PM Modi, This is how u win your election

And the EC knows this

& deliberately sitting silent & giving winning certificate to BJP@realumeshsingh@RoopeshSinghINC@RobbieK014 @ashharwarsi_inc @IYCLegalCell @MaryDenniz pic.twitter.com/WoRYNrASd1 — Darryl (@Trendsetting123) March 12, 2022

The captions of such viral posts said things like, “Now don't say that the secret of BJP's victory is the blessings of the people,” or “ Sir, This is what u are talking about, #BOOTH capturing. Dear PM Modi, This is how u win your election And the EC knows this & deliberately sitting silent & giving winning certificate to BJP.”

The India Today Anti-Fake news War room ( AFWA) found that the viral news clip was from the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In the original report, voters alleged booth-capturing in Faridabad, Haryana.

The archived viral posts can be seen here and here.



AFWA probe

The location mentioned in the viral NDTV news clip was Faridabad, Haryana. This made it clear that the video was not related to the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.

We found the original news clip on the YouTube channel of NDTV India, uploaded on May 13, 2019. The video was titled, "The Election Commission took action after the Faridabad video of booth-capturing went viral."

In the original video, a reporter spoke to a group of women who alleged that a person named Giriraj forced them to cast their votes in favour of the BJP. A minute into the YouTube video, the viral portion of the news clip was seen.

We took this as a clue and looked for news reports regarding the allegations from that time. We found several news reports from 2019. As per the reports, after a video of a person influencing voters at a booth in Palwal, Haryana went viral during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Election Commission ordered re-polling. The person named Giriraj mentioned in the viral video was also arrested.

Thus, it is clear that this video that went viral with allegations of booth-capturing in UP is not from the state at all. Nor is it from any of the recently-concluded assembly polls. It’s from 2019.

(With input from Yash Mittal)