A video has surfaced on social media platforms showing a huge crowd with a claim that the video shows a crowd protesting the new ‘Tour of Duty’ (ToD) or Agnipath scheme.

Under the scheme, around 46,000 soldiers will be recruited between the ages of 17-and-a -half years and 21 years (23 for the year 2022) into the three armed services on a four-year short-term contractual basis.

Some Facebook are sharing the post with the caption, “#किसानों ने काले कानून वापस करा दिए थे युवा #अग्निवीर की योजना को वापस करायेगा”

(English Translation: The farmers managed to get the black farm laws rolled back, the Youth will get #Agniveer to roll back too)

The posts can be seen here and here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the video and found that it had been shared with a false claim.

With the help of a Reverse Image Search using the keyframes, we found the same video uploaded on a YouTube channel on January 4, 2021, with the caption, “Allama Khadim Hussain Rizvi Chehlum | TLP Chehlum 2021.” As per the YouTube video, the visuals are from Lahore, Pakistan.

On checking further with relevant keywords, we found that the chief of Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), Khadim Hussain Rizvi passed away on November 19, 2020. His Chehlum, which is a religious observance in Islam held 40 days after the death of a person, was observed on January 3, 2021, near Mosque Rehmatul Lil Alameen at Multan Road’s Battery Stop in Lahore. It was attended by thousands of people in Pakistan, which can be seen in the viral video.

NewsMobile debunked the same video in November 2021, which was shared as a protest in Mumbai against Tripura violence. The same video was recently shared as a protest against Nupur Sharma’s remarks on the Prophet and the crowd chanting Hanuman Chalisa in Jaipur.

https://newsmobile.in/articles/2022/06/16/fact-check-old-video-from-pak-falsely-shared-as-people-chanting-hanuman-chalisa-in-jaipur/

Thus it is clear that the viral video is old and is NOT from India. Hence, it can be concluded that the video is being shared with a false claim.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news