Misleading and fake news about Rahul Gandhi often goes viral on social media. In the same way a video of Rahul Gandhi is constantly going viral on social media by users. Accounts who shared the video are claiming that he is leaving India and moving to London.

A Facebook user wrote: ““अब बनाओ प्रधानमंत्री। राहुल गांधी बाल बच्चों को लेकर लंदन में बसेंगे।” वहीं कई अन्य यूजर्स भी राहुल गांधी पर तंज कसते हुए इस वीडियो को शेयर कर रहे हैं।

The caption roughly translates in English that now make Rahul Gandhi as the Prime Minister of India as he is going to settle down in London and make a family out there.

Fact Check

We found a video of Rahul Gandhi’s rally after a reverse search of some frames of the video to investigate the video going viral. The video was uploaded on the official YouTube channel of the Indian National Congress on October 13, 2019, where he is addressing a rally in Latur, Maharashtra.

Rahul Gandhi’s statement can be heard between 15 minutes 19 seconds to 15 minutes 40 seconds of this video when he is saying, “I will go to London, and my children will go and read in America. I have nothing to do with India. I have billions of cores of rupees, I will go anytime. ”

It may be noted that Rahul Gandhi was criticizing the Narendra Modi government for fleeing abroad with money from Indian banks by businessmen including Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi. After listening to Rahul Gandhi’s speech from 14 minutes 50 seconds, the entire sentence is as follows: The farmer is afraid. He stays awake all night, how to repay the loan. But Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi get a good sleep. Without fear, nothing is going to happen. I’ll go to London, my children will go and study in America. I have nothing to do with India. I have a friend like Narendra Modi. I have billions of rupees, I’ll go anytime.

Conclusions: This investigation proves that Rahul Gandhi has not spoken of settling down in London. He was commenting on traders fleeing abroad with the country’s money while hitting out at Narendra Modi but social media users have tried to prove that Rahul Gandhi is talking about his London settlement by making half of his video viral. This fact check proves that the claim on Rahul Gandhi is false and misleading.