A Facebook post with pictures of diamonds, emeralds, gold bars, etc. has gone viral claiming to be the funeral of the richest man in Kuwait.

Facebook user "Suraj Kiran Travels" posted nine pictures with the caption, "The richest man in Kuwait Nassi Al Kharki has passed away. Check out his treasures and assets.... He can't carry a single thing with him. This is a grim reminder to all."

advertisement

One of the photos shows a man lying in a coffin wearing gold jewellery. The other pictures are of a box of glittering stones, gold bullion and bars, golden bed and accessories, jet, yacht and car, glittering stairs and bundles of dollar notes.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the post to be misleading. The man in the coffin was actually a millionaire real estate mogul from Trinidad and Tobago. Also, as claimed in the post, "Nassi Al Kharki" is not the richest man in Kuwait.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. Many Facebook users have made a similar claim and posted similar content.

Identifying the man

Using reverse image search on all the pictures in the post, AFWA arrived at the truth.

Several international media such as "Mail Online" and "Metro" reported about the extravagant funeral of a man in Trinidad and Tobago.

As per these reports, 33-year-old millionaire real estate mogul Sheron Sukhedo was gunned down in a drive-by shooting. He was doused in Moet champagne before being cremated and then laid in a gold casket with jewellery worth $100,000.

Richest man in Kuwait

The richest man of Kuwait in 2019 as per a survey by "Forbes" magazine is Kutayba Alghanim. He is the chairman of Alghanim Industries.

We could not find the name of any rich Kuwaiti man by the name "Nassi Al Kharki" in the Forbes list. The closest name we found was Nassi Al Kharafi, a Kuwaiti businessman who died in 2011. His name was present in the Forbes billionaire list of that year. The report can be seen here.

We also found that the photos of riches in the viral post have been used by many websites earlier as stock photos.

The luxury car

This is a Luxury Crystal Benz studded with 3,00,000 Swarovski crystal glass, displayed at the pavilion of custom car accessory company Garson/D.A.D at Tokyo Auto Salon at Makuhari Messe in Chiba, east of Tokyo on January 9, 2009.

advertisement

Decoding the riches

The golden jet in the viral picture is actually a Dassault Falcon 900B.

Original picture of the jet

The picture of the gold-coloured luxury car was published earlier in an Australian website.

Among other photographs in the viral post, the picture of gold bullion was previously published here; image of diamonds inside a box can be seen here; and picture of gold bars was published as stock photo for a Telegu website.

The image of a crystal staircase was published earlier in a blogsite. Similar images of bundles of dollars can be found on the website of 'The Money Museum of Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago'.

A reverse image search with the help of Tineye suggests that the image of the luxurious bed was also used previously by several blogsites.

With these results, we can conclude that the viral post is misleading. The man in the coffin is not from Kuwait but Trinidad and Tobago. Photos of articles used to claim they belonged to the richest man of Kuwait are also not true. The name mentioned in the post as the richest man of Kuwait is misleading too.