Days after Boris Johnson announced his resignation as British Prime Minister, social media claims have surfaced on the internet suggesting that Rishi Sunak has become the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. The social media posts further claimed that the British Prime Minister is an Indian.

The text in one of such social media posts reads: “#ब्राह्मण ऋषि_सौनक बने #ब्रिटेन के #पीएम

नारायण मूर्ति व सुधा मूर्ति के दामाद हैं ऋषि सौनक। अब बदला हुआ पूरा,जिस #ब्रिटेन ने #ढाई #सौ #साल भारत पर #हुकुमत की। आज ब्रिटेन का #पीएम एक #भारतीय #बन #गया है। बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं। जय भगवान परशुराम जी” (English Translation: “Brahmin Rishi Sunak became the #PM of Britain. Rishi Sunak is the son-in-law of Narayana Murthy and Sudha Murthy. Revenge has been taken now.. #Britain ruled India for 250 years… Today an Indian became the #PM of Britain. Congratulations and best wishes. Jai Bhagwan Parshuram ji“)

The above post can be seen here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be false.

Firstly, there has been no latest announcement by 10 Downing Street, or British Prime Minister’s office, about the appointment of new Prime Minister. We scanned through the official website of UK Prime Minister, but did not find any communication/press release on the appointment of the new PM.

We further ran a Google search with relevant keywords, which led us to several news reports saying that Rishi Sunak is ‘leading the race to replace Boris Johnson as Conservative Party leader and British prime minister’. Reportedly, Rishi Sunak managed to win the first two rounds of voting by Tory members of Parliament. These reports can be seen here, here and here.

There are five probable candidates to replace Boris Johnson — Rishi Sunak, Liz Truss, Penny Mordaunt, Kemi Badenoch and Tom Tugendhat.

Meanwhile, Graham Brady, Chairman of the Conservative Party’s backbench 1922 Committee, has stated that the news British Prime Minister will be announced on September 5, 2022.

It is to be noted that former Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak has Indian roots, however, he is a British citizen. He was born in Southampton, England, on May 12, 1980. His family migrated to Britain in 1960s.

With the above findings, it is established that Rishi Sunak has not become the British Prime Minister. And the claim in circulation is totally misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news