Spread the truth:

A video is viral on WhatsApp claiming to be of drone attack by US on convoy of Iranian Major General Qasem Soleimani.

The text along with the viral video –

“देखिए कैसे क़ासिम सुलेमानी के क़ाफ़िले के एक एक आदमी को चुन चुन कर मारा अमेरिका ने एक भी आदमी नहीं बचा दूर दूर तक भागे हर आदमी को मार दिया”



“Stunning and chilling video of the drone attack on the convoy of Iranian Maj Gen Qasim Suleimani ….”

Tweeted by Meena Das Narayan, Journalist,Editor-in Chief of Gulf Connoisseur,writer, poet,artist, film/opera director, Political Cartoonist, Vice President of VHS Karnataka & BCKA. (From Twitter profile)

, Journalist,Editor-in Chief of Gulf Connoisseur,writer, poet,artist, film/opera director, Political Cartoonist, Vice President of VHS Karnataka & BCKA. (From Twitter profile)

Amazing video of Sulaimani’s end pic.twitter.com/3aOdiUCy8l — Meena Das Narayan (@MeenaDasNarayan) January 6, 2020

देखिए कैसे क़ासिम सुलेमानी के क़ाफ़िले के एक एक आदमी को चुन चुन कर मारा अमेरिका ने…एक भी आदमी नहीं बचा…दूर दूर तक भागे हर आदमी को मार दिया…!! अब ऐसे में कहाँ तुम अमरीका से लड़ पाओगे ईरान भाई…😏😏 pic.twitter.com/lv4F2lmIX8 — Rounak (@Rounak_Saffron) January 6, 2020

#VIDEO Así como la nave no tripulada MQ-9 REAPER (Dron) de las Fuerzas estadounidenses, ataca convoy del general Qassem Suleimani Jefe de seguridad e inteligencia de Irán, después de abandonar el aeropuerto de Bagdad. #IranUsa #Internacional pic.twitter.com/l41rCfaVJj — X Un MoReLoS MeJoR (@Mor_en_lucha) January 5, 2020

Viral on Facebook

A Nigerian portal also posted –

Truth

This video is a screengrab of a video Game, uploaded on YouTube 5 years ago i.e. 2015

Byte Conveyor Studios uploaded the video on 25th March with the following description –



“Development preview of our upcoming game for mobile platforms, “AC-130 Gunship Simulator: Special Ops Squadron“. Voted TOP 50 2014 App of the Year at SlideDB.”

The same Fake video was used by Russia in 2017 as proof claiming US is working with ISIS

CBS News reported 3 years ago that Russia also used screenshot of the same game video as a proof of attack

Russia offers bogus “evidence” that U.S. is helping ISIS

The @mod_russia uses images from a computer game as evidence the US is working with ISIS https://t.co/8uv2vbEHeQ pic.twitter.com/EvqP1Id5pR — Eliot Higgins (@EliotHiggins) November 14, 2017

A similar video from such video game simulator was viral last year Feb 2019 claiming to be a real footage of India’s Air Force’s attack on Pakistan’s Balakot

Related