An emotional Facebook post with a photograph of a woman visibly in pain wearing an oxygen mask while holding a man from behind, has gone viral on social media. It is being claimed that this woman is pregnant and has been tested positive for Covid-19.

The viral post appeals for more shares and prayers as the man claims that doctors fear that his wife might not survive. and even if she does, the child might too be corona-positive.

advertisement

The Facebook post has already been shared by more than 12,000 users.



However, India Today Anti Fke team found that this viral image has no link with coronavirus. Also, the woman in the picture is not suffering from Covid-19. This image was taken by documentary-styled photographer named Elaine Baca as part of her album, which is based on birth photography.

The post is archived here..

The Dallas-based photographer captured various moments of pregnancy in her album.

With the help of reverse image search, we found that the viral image was published in an article on a website called popsugar.com. The article with the headline Photographer Is Raising Awareness of the Increased Maternal and Fetal Mortality Rate in Black Communities was published on February 20, 2020.

Hence, this viral image has no relation with coronavirus as the woman seen in the picture is not a Covid-19 patient.

The viral message also claims that the doctors said that if the woman delivers a baby, the newborn will also be Covid-19 positive.

As per WHO ( World Health Organisation) guidelines, research is currently underway to understand the impacts of Covid-19 infections on pregnant women. Data are limited, but at present there is no evidence that they are at higher risk of severe illness than the general population.

There are news reports about Covid-19 mothers delivering healthy babies. However, the research on this topic is yet to be completed.

"We still do not know if a pregnant woman with COVID-19 can pass the virus to her foetus r baby during pregnancy or delivery. To date, the virus has not been found in samples of amniotic fluid or breastmilk, reads WHO website.

Also Read | Coronavirus very likely of animal origin, no sign of lab manipulation: WHO

Also Read | Donald Trump says immigration suspension to last 60 days

Also Watch | Dr Ian Lipkin on recovering from coronavirus and what future holds for world