Spread the truth:

With the current tensions between India and Pakistan starting from the Pulwama attack on the 14th of February, 2019 when 42 CRPF jawans were killed in Pulwama, Jammu and Kashmir till the release of Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman who was captured by Pakistani Army men, a lot of fake news have gone viral on social media platforms. We have a few examples with us.

1. This video of a Pakistani Air Force pilot on an F16 jet who had allegedly violated Indian airspace.

This video shows a Pakistani Air Force pilot who allegedly targetted an Indian jet from an F-16 fighter jet used by the Pakistani Army. This post has been widely shared by social media users in Pakistan.

This post by Azaz Syed, a Pakistan based author has got 605 retweets.

TRUTH:

A reverse search of this video led us to this video uploaded by Pakistan Defence, a youtube channel

This video, a compilation of two unrelated videos is actually true, with false context. There are two videos clubbed together. The first part of this video shows a Pakistani pilot shooting a Go Pro video in an F16 cockpit. The video has been taken from a YouTube channel called Pakistan Defence, and the video’s description shows, “Watch this amazing cockpit video of the F-16 shot with a GoPro camera. Aircraft flown by Wing Commander Azman Khalil from the 9th Griffins fighter squadron of the Pakistan Air Force based at PAF base Mushaf”

This has been clubbed with another video of RT News, dating back to 2015. The description of the video says, “The Royal Danish Air Force participated in an exercise involving an F-16 Fighting Falcon jet shooting down a remote Banshee 600 drone using guided missiles.”

2. Pakistani media sharing images of crashed Indian fighter jets shooting down an Indian jet, Pakistan Media was flooded with fake images.

TRUTH:

Although the images are true, bot these images date back to articles reported on Indian jet crashes in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj and Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer. SMHoaxSlayer has already busted this news. SM HaxSlayer has debunked bot these fake news before.

This fake image shared by The Express Tribune in Pakistan with 450 retweets is actually of a 2016 jet crash in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj District.

Two Indian jets downed, pilot captured by Pakistani forces #PakistanStrikesBack https://t.co/9XteNrGpd7 pic.twitter.com/RPqIaAWN73 — The Express Tribune (@etribune) February 27, 2019

Debunked tweet Thread:

Pak Media, Why use a 3 year old accident photo ? check reply for proof https://t.co/RSnD5fCxNn — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) February 27, 2019

You can also refer to this article for more details.

The Fake image shared by Pakistan Tehreek e Insaf Political party, broadcast by ARY News was actually an accident in Jaisalmer, where an MiG 27 jet crashed on 12th February, 2019

Minister of Foreign Affairs Shah Mahmood Qureshi Exclusive Talk with ARY News after Pakistan Army demonstrates its right and capability for self defence (27.02.19)#Pakistan 🇵🇰 @SMQureshiPTI pic.twitter.com/tJTZxslUnY — PTI (@PTIofficial) February 27, 2019

Debunked tweet Thread:

Pak official media, do not pick photos from Internet. This was Near Jaisalmer, Rajasthan 13th Feb 2019. check for proof

Fake photo – https://t.co/edYU0Uce5O? pic.twitter.com/7BgWIFmVU5 — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) February 27, 2019

You can also go through this article for more reference. You can also refer to this link: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/mig-27-fighter-jet-crashes-in-jaisalmer-pilot-safe/article26250372.ece

3. Is this person Abhinandan Varthaman?

Pakistani Media has circulated this video of an injured Indian Air Force pilot, claiming him to be Abhinandan Varthama, who was caught by the Pakistani Army, and later released. Pakistani Journalist Shahid Masood shared this video, which has got 3566 retweets.

2nd Indian Pilot Arrested Alive… pic.twitter.com/TaYWNCCljY — Dr Shahid Masood (@Shahidmasooddr) February 27, 2019

This video is actually of VT Shelke, a pilot who was injured after the infamous Yelahanka air crash in Bengaluru, after two Surya Kiran jets collided into each other while practicing for stunts for the Bengaluru Aero India Show.

Refer to: https://www.thequint.com/news/india/student-comforting-suryakiran-pilot-after-bengaluru-crash

SMHoaxSlayer has also busted similar fake news in the past:

A video is viral in claiming IAF Pilot Abhinandan's wife is giving out a message. The woman in the video is saying – "Hello everyone, I am the wife of an army officer. On behalf of the families of all the armed forces, I request my fellow Indians, especi… https://t.co/fG04bdhJWN — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) March 1, 2019

A video is viral where few man in army uniform are dancing to music claimed as IAF Pilot Abhinandan is dancing with Pakistani Soldiers. The man claimed as Abhinandan is in different uniform than others. 5589 Shares of a post by We Stand Against War Betwe… https://t.co/01MVkNLXJj — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) March 1, 2019

Old photos are viral claimed to be of damage done in Pakistan by IAF Attack https://t.co/IgFKANF5gq pic.twitter.com/i5yaANwIy2 — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) February 27, 2019

#IndianAirForce never release their #airstrike videos on #WhatsApp which you might have received by now.

Most of them are false, and if real, the point arise, where did they get classified video from ? Security breach ? So do not forward them without verifying. — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) February 26, 2019

(With references from AltNews)

Related