In the backdrop of border tensions between India and China, a video showing some soldiers lying on the ground, gagged and tied, is going viral on social media with the claim that this was how Chinese troops humiliated Indian soldiers in Ladakh.

The 10-second clip shows some soldiers lying face down on the ground, with their necks, hands and legs tied together, even as some others standing behind are seen tying and pulling the ropes.

advertisement

Facebook page “JK Times” shared the video with a caption in Urdu that translates to, “Humiliation of Indian soldiers in Ladakh by Chinese soldiers ... Now share as much as you can”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is at least eight months old and of a training session of Bangladeshi soldiers.

Till the filing of this story, the video was viewed almost 80,000 times and shared over 5,000 times. The archived version can be seen here.

Twitter user “Imran Khan” also shared the video with the caption, “Indian Army defeated in Ladakh Fash video after being beaten by the Chinese army.”

AFWA probe

Certain clues in the video itself gave rise to suspicions over the claim that it is a torture video the superimposed background score and the fact that there was no resistance from the soldiers who were tied and gagged. Also, the whole activity was being carried out in a synchronised manner.

Searching further, we found that a TikTok user had shared the video on April 21. Recent border tensions between India and China along the Line of Actual Control erupted only last month.

A keyword search led us to a longer version of the video, which was uploaded in October last year on a YouTube page with the caption, “Bangladesh Army hard training.”

While the viral video has the score of Turkish song “Derdim” by Xeyale Tovuzlu in the background, one can hear the soldiers conversing in Bengali in the original video. An even longer version of the video shows some soldiers grinning even as they’re lying on the ground.

It is true that some Indian soldiers were captured by Chinese forces during the bloody Galwan Valley clashes of June 15, but they were released later. There is no report of Indian soldiers being tortured by Chinese troops. The viral video is of a training session of Bangladeshi soldiers and has no link to the border stand-off between India and China.