Has former United States President Barack Obama extended support for the ongoing farmer's protest and that too by snubbing Prime Minister Narendra Modi?

In the backdrop of the farmers' agitation near Delhi, an image of a tweet, purportedly made by Obama, has gone viral. The picture along with the tweet has Obama shaking hands with PM Modi. The tweet dated December 5 says, "Today I am shamefull for a hand shake with this man #Narendra Modi".

advertisement

The viral picture has been shared by many Facebook users with the hashtag #FarmerProtest2020.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the 'screenshot' of Obama's tweet is morphed. Till December 7 evening, he did not tweet anything related to the ongoing farmers' protest. The viral picture of Obama and Modi shaking hands is from 2014.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

Truth behind the viral 'tweet'

The sloppy English of the tweet in the image made us suspicious. Spelling mistakes such as "shamefull" and "hand shake" in a former US President's tweet are highly unlikely. Also "ashamed of" should have been the right expression instead of "shameful" in this particular sentence.

Using reverse image search, we found that the viral picture was taken during PM Modi's four-day visit to the US in 2014.

We checked Obama's Twitter timeline and could not find any such tweet in recent times. On December 5, i.e. the date seen in the viral picture, he posted two tweets, both about his book "A Promised Land".

Comparing the viral image with an original tweet of Obama, we found glaring asymmetries in the alignment of both images.

Viral image

Original tweet





The ongoing farmers' protest has received international support as well, including that by Canadian PM Justin Trudeau and United Nations chief Antonio Guterres.

But till the time of writing this article, former US president Barack Obama has not tweeted anything related to the agitation. Therefore, we can say that the viral image of the tweet of Obama snubbing PM Modi is morphed.