Former Afghan President Ashraf Ghani fled the country along with other officials soon after Taliban entered Kabul on Sunday, August 15. As per reports, he first went to neighbouring Tajikistan, from where he left for Oman. In a lengthy Facebook post, Ghani said he left Afghanistan to avoid bloodshed.

Many in Afghanistan condemned Ghani's escape, and social media too was not far behind. Now, a video of the former Afghan President boarding a flight is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows Ghani fleeing his country after Taliban took over.

advertisement

"Ashraf Ghani fleeing Afghanistan as Taliban takes control over the country. Ghani proved how much he loves his country and the people of Afghanistan," reads one such caption along with the video.

Ashraf Ghani fleeing Afghanistan as Taliban takes control over the country.



Ghani proved how much he loves his country and the people of Afghanistan. pic.twitter.com/cDqfcVD9B9 — Afroz Alam (@AfrozJournalist) August 15, 2021

India Today Anti Fake News War Room(AFWA) has found that the viral post is not completely true. This video was taken last month when Ghani was leaving for a two-day visit to Uzbekistan.

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here. The video with similar claims is also going viral on Facebook.

READ: Ashraf Ghani: The Afghan president who failed to make peace with Taliban

AFWA investigation

Using reverse image search, we found a screenshot of the video in some news articles from July 15, saying Ghani left Afghanistan to attend an international summit in Uzbekistan.

With the help of keywords, we found that "Tolo News", a leading media outlet in Afghanistan, had tweeted the same video on July 15 with the caption, "President Ashraf Ghani left Kabul this morning for a two-day visit to Uzbekistan, the Presidential Palace said."

President Ashraf Ghani left Kabul this morning for a two-day visit to Uzbekistan, the Presidential Palace said. #Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/cheJg9rg8P — TOLOnews (@TOLOnews) July 15, 2021

As per a report by "Tolo News", Ghani visited Uzbekistan to attend an international summit named "Central and South Asia: Regional Connectivity, Challenges and Opportunities". Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar had also attended the conference.

Therefore, it is clear that a month-old video is being wrongly circulated as Ghani fleeing Afghanistan after Taliban took over the country.

As per reports Ghani escaped from Afghanistan on August 15 with four cars and a helicopter full of cash. Some reports say he is likely to head to the United States.