Amid the ongoing Nupur Sharma controversy, a video of PM Modi with a sheikh is going viral on the internet. Further, sharing the video, a Facebook MONU JHA user wrote, “Children keep doing Nupur Nupur here, Papa Ji brought a gold necklace of 150 tola from Sheikh Sahib, Modi ji insults the blind devotees..”

(“बच्चे यहां नुपुर नुपुर करते रहे और पापा जी शेख साहब से 150 तोले का सोने का हार ले आए गजब बेइज्जती करते हैं मोदी जी अंधभक्तो की”)

Similarly, many other scoial media users have shared this video with similar sarcastic comments.

Also Read: Picture of Udaipur murder accused Riyaz with Rahul Gandhi goes viral!

Fact Check

Using InVID tool and reverse image search on the different frames of the viral video, we got a video on the YouTube channel named Narendra Modi. The video was uploaded on Aug 24, 2019 with the title, “PM Modi conferred the highest honour of the UAE.”

Further, on keyword search we found a tweet from the verified account ANI, dated August 24, 2019. Along with the Pictures Of Narendra Modi with Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan the caption given is, “Abu Dhabi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi conferred with Order of Zayed, UAE’s highest civilian award by Crown Prince, Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.”

Abu Dhabi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi conferred with Order of Zayed, UAE's highest civilian award by Crown Prince, Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. pic.twitter.com/tezAhEDtJU — ANI (@ANI) August 24, 2019

Moreover, we also got a tweet from the verified account of NDTV, dated April 4, 2019. The tweet stated that, “PM Modi conferred with Zayed Medal, UAE’s top civilian honour.” The Order of Zayed is the highest civilian decoration in the UAE.

PM Modi conferred with Zayed Medal, UAE's top civilian honour https://t.co/JDVMfIJEaq pic.twitter.com/F3GqJn6rAZ — NDTV (@ndtv) April 4, 2019

Conclusion

Therefore, it is clear that the viral video is not related to the ongoing Nupur Sharma controversy. Hence, social media users are sharing an old video with misleading claims.