Social media is divided over the farmers’ protest which is now in its third week. While many are backing the farmers’ demands, others have accused unscrupulous elements of hijacking the movement.

Amid this, some pictures of a huge vegetable store are circulating on social media with the claim that farmers have opened their own supermarket in Bengaluru. The pictures show several rows of vegetable carts in a spanking clean establishment.

advertisement

One such claim in Hindi translates to, “Farmers have opened their own supermarket in Bengaluru. We need to learn something from them.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The images are of Humus, an agri-tech start-up established in 2019 by a Bengaluru couple. There are no recent reports on supermarkets in Bengaluru directly run by farmers.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

In one of the images shared along with the claim, we noticed the name “Humus” written on a board. Taking a cue from this, we did a reverse search of the images with the keyword “Humus” and found the same photographs on the website of a Bengaluru supermarket with the same name.

According to the “about” section of the website, Humus sources vegetables and fruits directly from farmers and sells it to customers in Bengaluru. We could not find any mention about Humus belonging to farmers as said in the claims.

We also found news articles about the start-up, according to which, Humus was founded in 2019 by Manjunatha TN and Shilpa Gopalaiah. AFWA then reached out to Manjunatha, who confirmed that the claim is misleading.

“At the moment, there are no supermarkets run exclusively by farmers in Bengaluru. It is not a viable option for farmers to come and sell their products to customers in town. Humus was established by me and my wife Shilpa Gopalaiah in 2019. The claim that Humus is owned by farmers in Bengaluru is false. I’m a post-graduate in mechanical engineering and Shilpa used to work as a team leader at IBM India,” Manjunatha told AFWA.

Explaining how it works and future plans, he further said, “We purchase fruits and vegetables directly from farmers at a fair market price through our collection centres established in rural areas of Bengaluru and then sell it to customers at our store in the city. At present, we have our store only in Bengaluru. Going forward, we will build Humus fair price shops across India and facilitate the sale between farmers and consumers”

Therefore, it is clear that the images of a vegetable supermarket said to be run by farmers in Bengaluru are actually of a start-up.