A Facebook user named ‘Sonu Kashyap’ shared a post on 2 June 2019. The post as translated from Hindi quoted “If India is attacked, then we will not see Ramadan, not see Roza. Will retort answers. Whether the traitor be from within the country or outside, we will retort response. Jai Shree Ram. Hindu Religion Unity Protector Sonu Bhaiya. Yogi Disciple.” As per this post’s claim, the army chief has said a threatening statement for the Muslims. Let us see what the facts are!

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA:

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

A threatening statement given by an Army Chief is no small matter. The news channels or media would have definitely covered such a news. So we began with our search on Google with the claimed sentence “हम पर हमला हुआ तो रोजा या रमजान नहीं देखेंगे आर्मी चीफ” as the key words, but we did not find anything related to the claim.

We tried using the ‘Google Reverse Image Search’, yet could not find anything.

Then we used “army chief warns of stern action even during Ramadan” key words on google. What we got in the search is below:

‘TOI’ published a news dated 27 October 2018, which said that Bipin Rawat gave a statement on the stone pelters in Jammu-Kashmir. He said that a soldier has died because of these stone pelters and Army has filed an FIR about this. He further said that these kind of actions should be strictly investigated. However, nowhere has he said any statement as the above claim. To read the entire story, click on the link below.

TOIPost | ArchivedPost

We also analysed the Facebook user’s timeline to check the kind of posts shared by him.

Sonu Kashyap Profile

We found that the user shared religion biased and opinionated posts on his timeline. These biased posts mislead the readers. We have given a video recording with the kind of posts shared on his timeline.

Based on the evidences we can confirm that the Army Chief has not given any threatening statements as claimed.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact checked and confirms that the photograph is being share in the post with a wrong narrative. We categorise the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased photographs and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.