The entire country is celebrating the return of Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman after he was released by Pakistan on Friday. Amidst this, some self-proclaimed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members started sharing a video showing huge celebrations after the entry of Abhinandan in Indian border.

Look how People are happy with #ModiNiti Reaction of Indians when our Jawan Abhinandan enters in India. pic.twitter.com/M5NQN4slG2 Akshay Singh (@Akshaysinghel) March 2, 2019

advertisement

The archived version can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the video is morphed.

The video has been shared by Akshay Singh on Twitter, who claims to be a member of BJP IT cell, Kolkata. It is worth mentioning that Akshay is followed by BJP President Amit Shah.

The caption with the video reads: "Look how People are happy with #ModiNiti. Reaction of Indians when our Jawan Abhinandan enters in India."

The video has also been shared by Ranjitsinh Chudasama who claims himself to be the co-convener of BJP's IT cell in Jamnagar. Ranjitsinh is followed by PM Narendra Modi.

RT Akshaysinghel: Look how People are happy with #ModiNiti Reaction of Indians when our Jawan Abhinandan enters in India. pic.twitter.com/7mezNbGDxR Ranjitsinh Chudasama (@bk_chudasama) March 2, 2019

Netizens are sharing this morphed video on Facebook as well.



The archived version can be seen here.

Some of the users in the comment section also pointed out that the video is edited. The actual video is of the celebration after a goal during a football match.

With the help of keywords, we found the original video of this celebration on YouTube.

Starting seconds of the video depict the same moments as shown in the viral video.

The YouTube video title says that it is the scene from Ashton Gate Stadium, Bristol after England won against Wales at Euro Cup 2016.

While searching for the original video, we found some more morphed videos of this cheering moment.

bUT ThE ScrEEnSaVEr NevER hITs dIRecTLy iN ThE coRnER!!!

*

1. This bar gets bonus points for allowing this foolishness.

2. Who still has a DVD player? pic.twitter.com/Dk9WFQNYZB Ron Johnson (@3RonJohnson) December 3, 2018

insane footage of a bar going wild for Cris Collinsworth Sunday night slide-in pic.twitter.com/B8uIlieM4L Quigs (@BigSeanQ) December 10, 2018

So, it’s clear that the celebration video shared with regards to Abhinandan’s homecoming is edited.

Though this video is morphed, Indians are indeed in a mood to celebrate the return of braveheart IAF Pilot Abhinandan Varthaman from Pakistan.

advertisement