A video clip of Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot is becoming increasingly viral on social media sites. In this video, he is explaining “Ra” and “M” of Ram. Expressing anger and resentment, users are asking how long will Lord Ram continue to be insulted like this?

A user named Babbar Singh Prakash took to Twitter with the caption, “The “Ra” in Ram means Ram and the “M” in Ram means Mohammad: Ashok Gehlot Chief Minister of Rajasthan, will any religious leader answer this parrot? For how long will these people insult Lord Ram like this?” also, shared a video clip in which CM Gehlot is seen saying, “The “Ra” in Ram means Ram, the right thing is said, and the “M” in Ram means Mohammad.”(Translates Hindi)

Similarly, a Facebook user named Shuklaa Satish and Instagram page Hindu_he_hum._ have also shared the same video with the exact same caption.

Fact Check:

Searching about CM Gehlot’s speech on the internet, we found 47.25 minutes video on verified YouTube channel Ashok Gehlot uploaded with the caption “Deval inauguration of Brahmalin Acharya Shri Harinarayanji Maharaj, the inauguration of development works of tourism department” has been done.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96k9oDyHjVw&t=10s

Talking about goodwill, harmony and mutual brotherhood, at 41.24 minutes in the video, CM Gehlot says that Dariyav ji Maharaj had written that “Ra” in Ram means that of Ram, said the right thing, and what is in Ram. “M” means Mohammed. The symbol of such Hindu-Muslim unity was Dariav ji Maharaj.

On the other hand, a couplet of Dariyav ji Maharaj was found on the website named Sant Kavi of Ramsnehi Sampradas, which CM Gehlot mentioned during his speech.

Conclusion:

This fact check of DFRAC proves that the claim being made by users through a short video clip of CM Gehlot’s statement is contextless and misleading, as CM Gehlot spoke on Hindu-Muslim unity. The message of Ji Maharaj was mentioned.

Claim Review: CM Gehlot told “Ra” in Ram as Ram and “M” means Mohammad Claimed by: Social media users Fact Check: Misleading

(Follow #DFRAC on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube.)