A photo collage of a woman soldier is doing rounds on the social media claiming that she lost her life in Kashmir on January 23, 2019.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Fact Check found this post to be totally false as no woman soldier died fighting this January.

The viral photo collage was posted by a Facebook page Bharatiy Yoddha’, which is followed by over 300,000 users. The post was shared by nearly 1,920 users.

advertisement

The post was also shared by hundreds of individual accounts on Facebook and Twitter.

The viral post contains three photos of a woman soldier who, the post said, were martyred and two photos of the cremation ceremony. The translation of the viral post’s caption written in Hindi reads, Alas! Kashmir (23/1/19) Kavita Saini martyred, she was posted in Kashmir. May God rest her soul in peace. Pay tribute by writing Jai Hind..Jai Hind).

India Today Fact Check spoke to DIG of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Dinakaran, who confirmed that the message attached to the viral post was completely false as no woman soldier have died fighting on the border in last one year. The officer also confirmed that the CRPF has never deployed women on the Kashmiri borders.

A Facebook profile named Kavita Saini’ also had these images uploaded on her timeline.

Through Kavita’s Facebook account, India Today Fact Check got a link to another Facebook user’s account which had posted more images of the same woman.

When the images were zoomed in, the name on the woman’s uniform badge revealed that her name is Kajal Kumari and not Kavita Saini.

A Google search about Kavita Saini showed an article published by Aaj Ki Satta , which also claimed that a woman named Kavita Saini was martyred in Kashmir.

The district bureau chief of the portal, Suresh Piplodiya told India Today TV that he had received this information from someone in Rajasthan and that he couldn’t confirm the source of the information.

The remaining two images claiming to be of the soldier’s funeral also do not belong to her. The first one belongs to Lance Naik Hamraj’s funeral who was killed by Pakistani soldiers on the LoC in 2014. The second one dates back to May 2017 when two Nagpur children died a tragic death from electrocution.

India Today Fact Check also found that a Twitter account with Kajal Kumari’s name and her pictures in uniform. However, the account hasn’t shown any activity since March 2018.

The news behind Kavita Kumari’s death while fighting on Kashmir’s border is absolutely false.

advertisement

Also Read | Fact Check: Viral post of Trump slapping Mexico City Governor is misleading

Also Read| Fact Check: No, these rail coaches are not manufactured under Make In India

Also Read| Fact Check: Amit Shah's claim about Opposition leaders not raising patriotic slogans incorrect