Indian and Chinese troops engaged in yet another face-off recently, this time in Arunachal Pradesh. As per reports, some 200 People’s Liberation Army personnel were intercepted along the Line of Actual Control. The troops disengaged after commander-level talks involving both sides.

This incident of interception of Chinese soldiers is circulating on social media with an image of some men in Indian Army uniform holding some other men in PLA outfits.

advertisement

One such post in Hindi translates to, “Rahul Gandhi will never tweet that the Indian Army captured more than 150 Chinese soldiers in Arunachal, who were released only after a commander-level meeting between the two sides. This is changing India. Jai Hind.”

It is true that Indian troops have foiled the latest incursion attempt by China in Arunachal. But India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this particular picture is of a shooting sequence of a movie called L.A.C. The film is based on the border stand-off between India and China at Galwan Valley last year.

AFWA probe

Using reverse search, we found the viral image along with other similar pictures published on a few Chinese websites where they had referred to these images as part of a film shoot in India.

Taking this as a clue, we searched YouTube with relevant keywords and found the original video on a channel called “Martial Art Ladakh”. The title of the video reads, “lac movie Shooting in kargil Ladakh Behind the scenes”.

At around 5.48 minutes, we found the same sequence of shots taken from a different angle where two men in seemingly PLA outfits are held by some other men in apparent Indian Army uniforms. Comparing it with the viral picture, we can identify the same set of men in both images.

Screenshot from YouTube video

Viral image

As per the description given on the YouTube video, this is a shooting sequence for the film L.A.C., wherein “all action scenes are choreographed by ig_tonyjaa”. His Instagram handle is also mentioned in the video description.

AFWA also found the Facebook account of “Tony Jaa” and spoke to him over the phone. Tony Jaa, whose real name is Zakir Hussain, hails from Kargil and is a professional martial arts instructor. The movie is directed by Nitin Gupta and stars Rahul Roy and Nishant Malkani.

“Yes, the viral image is from that shooting sequence of the film L.A.C. The boys who played the role of Chinese soldiers in blue fatigues are locals of Ladakh. It was shot in 2020,” said Tony Jaa after recognising the viral image.

advertisement

We also found news reports on L.A.C. during its shoot as it featured Bigg Boss 14 contestant Nishant Malkhani. As per these reports, the film is based on true events and the story focuses on a frontline soldier deployed in the Galwan Valley.

China has repeatedly violated Indian borders, with the latest incident emerging from Arunachal, as confirmed by the external affairs ministry. However, we do not have confirmed reports about what exactly transpired or other details of the interception of Chinese troops.

Hence, we can only confirm the face-off and not other details as mentioned in the viral claim. One thing for certain is that the picture used with the claim is a still from a shooting sequence for the movie L.A.C.

READ: Fact Check: 'Jai Sri Ram' instead of 'Ishwar Allah Tero Naam' the truth behind BJP MP Hans Raj Hans’ bhajan video

ALSO READ: Fact Check: This video doesn’t show SRK meeting Aryan Khan