A video of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee driving a scooter is being widely shared on social media. Sharing this video, users claim that the entire road was closed to teach the Bengal CM how to drive a scooter and the entire administration was helping her.

The video is shared on Facebook with a Hindi caption: “ममता बनर्जी को स्कूटी सिखाने के लिए पूरी सड़क बंद कर दी और पूरा शासन स्कूटी सिखाने में लगा है ऐसे ही नेताओ ने देश को बर्बाद किया है” (English translation: The whole road was closed to teach Mamata Banerjee how to ride a scooter and the whole administration is busy in teaching her. Such leaders have ruined the country.)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

Using the InVid Tool, we extracted keyframes from the viral video and performed a Reverse Image Search. This search directed us to a news report, published by The Economic Times on February 25, 2021, that carried similar visuals of Banerjee driving a scooter. The article headline reads: “Watch: Mamata Banerjee nearly falls while driving an electric scooter to protest fuel price hike”

The video was also uploaded by ANI on February 25, 2021, with the caption: “West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee nearly falls while driving an electric scooter in Howrah, as a mark of protest against the fuel price hike. She quickly regained her balance with support and continued to drive. She is travelling to Kalighat from State Secretariat in Nabanna.” Many other news websites also carried similar visuals in February 2021.

#WATCH | West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee nearly falls while driving an electric scooter in Howrah, as a mark of protest against fuel price hike. She quickly regained her balance with support and continued to drive. She is travelling to Kalighat from State Secretariat in Nabanna pic.twitter.com/CnAsQYNhTP — ANI (@ANI) February 25, 2021

Further, we did a keyword search, but could not find any recent media report corroborating the viral claim.

Thus, it is evident from the above information that an old video of Mamata Banerjee driving an electric scooter is being shared as recent with misleading claims.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news