A 45-second-video purportedly from space is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows an Indian satellite under maintenance colliding with the International Space Station. The post also claims that this incident killed American astronaut Michael Collins.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The video is actually a 3D animation created by CGI artist Aleksey Patrev. Also, American astronaut Michael Collins of Apollo 11 fame had died of cancer at the age of 90 in April 2021.

AFWA probe

Reverse- searching keyframes of the viral video on Yandex, we found a longer version of the same video uploaded on the Instagram page of CGI artist Aleksey Patrev from Ukraine.

The video was uploaded on July 27, 2021, with hashtags including #animation. In the comment section, several users were seen appreciating Aleksey's editing skills.

Aleksey had uploaded the same video on his YouTube channel and Twitter handle.

We also found several such animation videos related to space and nature created by Aleksey on his social media handles.

In 2021, the same video had circulated in China with the claim that it shows a staged "space collision" video created by NASA. Speaking to news agency AFP, Aleksey had then clarified that the video was created by him using 3ds Max computer program. Aleksey had also said the movie "Gravity" inspired him to create the video.

Death of Michael Collins

According to media reports, American astronaut Michael Collins - who was with Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin in Apollo 11, the first manned mission to land on the Moon in 1969 - had died of cancer.

Collins was 90 years old at the time of his death in April 2021. Reports say Collins spent his final days peacefully, with his family by his side.

Did an Indian satellite collide with ISS?

India had destroyed one of its satellites as part of Mission Shakti, the country's first anti-satellite (ASAT) missile test, in March 2019. There was no report of any loss of life during the incident.

India was the fourth country to have carried out an ASAT test.

However, as per reports, then NASA chief Jim Bridenstine had called it a "terrible thing". According to NASA, India's destruction of one of its satellites had created 400 pieces of orbital debris and led to new dangers for astronauts aboard the International Space Station.

Though Bridenstine had said the risk of collision with ISS increased by 44 per cent over 10 days due to India's test, he'd added that the risk would dissipate over time because much of the debris would burn up as it entered the atmosphere. The Indian satellite was destroyed at a relatively low altitude of 180 miles (300 km) - well below ISS and most satellites in orbit.

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is a 3D animation and does not show an Indian satellite colliding with the International Space Station.