Social media is flooded with a video showing a massive accident claiming to be a recent incident that took place on Mysore Road, near Bengaluru. The 30-second video clip, taken from a CCTV camera shows a truck crashing into a car in front of it and it demolishing three cars stuck ahead of it in the traffic, while another truck in the front of the traffic line is also hit. Social media users are sharing this video as an accident that took place on Mysore Road, Kengeri, near Bengaluru on June 28th, 2020. The post mentions that “This is in Mysore road, Near Kengeri. Just now recorded.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started the investigation by running a Yandex reverse image search on the keyframes of the video which led us to a video uploaded by Ruptly on 17th June 2020 with the headline “’Russia: Fatal truck crash caught on CCTV in Chelyabinsk *DISTRESSING CONTENT*’ with the same video detailed an accident that took place on June 17th which left 2 people dead and 5 injured.

A further keyword search led us to an Instagram user named superautos365 who had uploaded the same video with a caption in Russian asking users where is this accident is from. Several users have commented in Russian that this incident is from the M5 highway in Russia.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CBf-Jw3Fk9R/?utm_source=ig_embed

We further found relevant news reports about the incident. According to the reports, the accident took place on the M5 highway, on the outskirts of the city of Chelyabinsk, Russia which is said to have left two people dead and seven hospitalised. The truck driver who crashed his car and caused the accident survived the fatal crash. The brakes of his truck had failed, leading him to speed uncontrollably. He has been booked for criminal prosecution.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mdIfJ3lCZ-M

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above-mentioned post to be False. A video of a fatal road crash at a highway in Chelyabinsk,Russia on June 16th is being passed off as a truck accident on Mysore Road, Kengeri.