Spread the truth:

A viral post claiming images of a woman wearing bikini and talking to men to be that of Congress President Sonia Gandhi. The caption along with the image read,” जैसे दांत चियार कर बताते हो कि मोदी पहले चाय बेचते थे,वैसे ही खीस निपोर कर बता दो कि तुम्हारी मालकिन पहले क्या बेचती थी “. This roughly translates to, “you used tell PM Modi used to sell tea, look back to what your mistress used to sell”. This post with the caption went viral in Facebook and Twitter.

This Facebook handle named Vinay Kumar Dvivedi posted the images with the caption above and garnered around 3.4K shares.

Archive

Another set of similar images were posted with caption that translated, ” if you are your father’s child, then straighten up your chest and tell who is this beauty?”. This post garnered 22K shares and more than 1.4K likes.

Archive

A post of similar narrative can be seen in Twitter.

Archive

Truth

The claim is FALSE. When reverse image search was done, it shows that these photos were stills from the first James Bond movie ‘Dr. No’ and the woman in the photo was the actress Ursula Andress who featured in the 1962 movie.

The images on the post can be seen in the IMDb website of the movie “Dr. No” under the photos category. When clicked on the photos, the title reads, ‘Ursula Andress in Dr. No (1962)’, ‘Sean Conery and Ursula Andress in Dr. No (1962)’ and ‘Sean Connery, Ursula Andress, and Terence Young in Dr. No (1962)’.

Alamy stock photos and getty images also shows photos of the Dr. No cast together proving that it was not the Congress President in those viral posts. Additionally, International Business Times website also posted an article titled, “James Bond Dr No: Behind-The-Scenes Photos of Sean Connery and Ursula Andress”, containing the photos of the cast.

However this was not the first time the Congress President had come under scrutiny with fake and morphed photographs and posts. Few days earlier, #BarDancer was trending in Twitter after television journalist Arnab Goswami was attacked by allegedly Congress goons. This claim is FALSE as Sonia Gandhi did not work as a bar dancer but a bar attender while she was studying in university.

Archive

Several memes and photos of the Congress President was morphed with Hollywood actresses Reese Witherspoon and Marlyn Monroe. The photo in the left is the original image whereas the right image is morphed with Sonia Gandhi’s face on it.

In 2018, an image of Sonia Gandhi allegedly sitting on the lap of former President of Maldives Abdul Gayoom became viral. The caption along with the image roughly translated to, “Congress slaves, this is what your party head is does in hiding”. However, it was found to be 2005 meeting between the two and the image was found to be photoshopped.

Archive

#FakeNews #Photoshop #Edited #BreakFakeChain

This is an old edited image. It was a meeting of Sonia Gandhi with President of Maldives, Mr. Gayoom, both sitting on different chairs while talking. Source: https://t.co/Z85l1faSdF https://t.co/5NcR8QitYu pic.twitter.com/TEffSKKeXx — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) April 23, 2020

Related