A Facebook post which has gone viral claims that protesters threw shoes at Jharkhand Chief Minister Raghubar Das recently. This viral post by website 'Viral In India' refers to a news article with the headline: BJP ke mukhyamantri ko maare gaye joote, sabhi 500 logo pe case darj (Shoes hurled at a BJP CM, cases registered against 500 people).

India Today Fact Check found this article to be old and misleading. This is a two-year-old case which has been published again by the website, presenting it as a fresh incident.

advertisement

Also Read | Fact Check: Viral post claiming Modi govt killed more terrorists than that of Manmohan Singh is false

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The Viral In India posted this news report on their Facebook page with a caption Harkatien hi inki aisi hain on January 9, 2019. Their Facebook page has more than 10 lakh followers. This post has been shared by more than 550 people at the time of writing this article.

The Viral In India article claimed that people hurled shoes at Jharkhand CM Raghubar Das when he went to pay homage to tribal martyrs.

Netizens poured in critical comments on Raghubar Das and the BJP government, believing it to be a recent incident.

We found this incident happened around two years ago on January 1, 2017.

CM Raghubar Das was indeed attacked by people when he reached Shahid Park in Kharsawa to pay tributes to tribal martyrs at a memorial who were killed in police firing on January 1, 1948. When the chief minister reached out to pay respect to these martyrs, around 100 agitators from the crowd showed black flags and a few of them hurled shoes at him.

This incident was widely covered by the prominent media houses, including India Today.

A video of OneIndia Hindi about the incident is embedded in the Viral In India article. It is also reported that 500 people are booked for attacking Das. We didn’t find any credible news report to confirm this claim.

India Today concludes that this is an old news report which has been published again to mislead people.

Also Read | Fact Check: PM Modi didn't lend his voice in this viral 'Katyayani mantra'

Also read | Fact Check: Viral video claiming "BJP worker caught with beef in Gujarat" is false