Congress President Rahul Gandhi used Rafale warplanes to carpet-bomb the Modi government during Friday's no-trust debate in Parliament.

His charge was Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had "lied" that the 2016 deal for the combat aircraft with France was tightly guarded by a bilateral classified clause.

Rahul Gandhi insisted that President Emmanuel Macron of France had himself ruled out that the contract was governed by any confidentiality agreement.

advertisement

"I met the President of France personally. I asked him if there is any secrecy pact between India and France. The French president said there is no secrecy pact between the two countries," Gandhi said in Parliament.

Our fact-check of the Rafale reportage reveals how both the government and the opposition had flip-flopped on the issue.

Remember, India had originally awarded France's Dassault with an order for 126 fighter jets in 2012. The number of planes was scaled back to 36 when the deal was announced four years later by the Modi government.

Here's the chronology of what went back and forth over the Rafale details:

November 17, 2017:

At a news conference in New Delhi, Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman promised to share details. "The deal was finalized following a transparent procedure," she told reporters. When asked repeatedly by reporters about the comparative cost of each aircraft negotiated by the then UPA government and the rate at which the deal was sealed last year, Sitharaman advised officials to give the figures to the media. Read this full story here

February 5, 2018:

Just a month before French President Emmanuel Macron's visit to New Delhi, Sitharaman declined to share the Rafale details, citing them as "classified information" under an inter-government agreement. The minister's written statement was a reply to a question by Samajwadi Party MP Naresh Agrawal, who sought to know whether the government was keeping the accord from public domain.

March 8, 2018:

India Today published an exclusive interview of president Macron done by India Today Group editorial director Raj Chengappa. In its operative part, the French leader categorically refused to disclose commercial aspects of the deal.

Raj Chengappa: Why can't the details of the deal be revealed and the air cleared up rather than have accusations flying around?

President Macron: First of all, you have these commercial agreements, and obviously you have competitors and we can't let them know details of the deal. In India and in France, when the deal is very sensitive, we can't reveal details because of business reasons. Part of the absence of answers to some technical issues is these commercial agreements and the interests of different companies. Secondly, there are some discussions to be organised by the Indian government, and they will have to consider which details they would want to be revealed to the opposition and Parliament. I am not the one to interfere in such a discussion, and you too must realise that we have to consider commercial sensitivities. Read the whole interview here

advertisement

March 12, 2018:

Rahul Gandhi tweeted about his meeting with Macron. "Yesterday, I met with French President Emmanuel Macron. We discussed a range of issues common to our liberal democracies, including fake news," he posted on his Twitter handle with a photo attached of him and former PM Manmohan Singh with the French President.

March 28, 2018:

Minister of State for Defence Subhash Bhamre told Parliament that an agreement on protecting classified data was signed by India and France on March 10, 2018. He was responding to a question from TDP MP Muthamsetti Srinivasa Rao in the Lok Sabha, who sought to know if New Delhi and Paris had signed any new confidentiality accord for Rafales.