France is witnessing massive protests against Covid-19 measures. French President Emmanuel Macron has decided to make vaccination compulsory for health workers and health passes mandatory for access to restaurants and other public amenities.

Amid the crisis, a video of cops applauding demonstrators and putting their helmets on the ground has gone viral with the claim that French police have also joined the ongoing protests.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that French police have not joined the ongoing protests. The viral video is from June last year when health workers organised nationwide demonstrations during the pandemic. In Nimes, cops put down their helmets and applauded health workers.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here. The viral clip has also been uploaded on video hosting sites such as “BitChute” on July 18.

What AFWA found

Using reverse image search, we found the same video posted on YouTube on June 17, 2020, by a French news channel. This YouTube channel has over 2 million subscribers. The video description in French translates to, “Police put their helmets on the ground and applauded caregivers in N®mes during the demonstrations”

Taking this as a cue, we searched the Internet and found a French news article from 2020.

According to this report, during nationwide demonstrations by health workers in the middle of the pandemic last year, a different moment was witnessed in Nimes where cops applauded them by putting their helmets on the ground. Several social media users had also posted videos of the same.

Besides the video of the French cops putting down their helmets, several unrelated and old videos have also been stitched together in the viral clip. One such video is part of a 2019 protest march by French trade unions and teachers.

Several videos have gone viral in the recent past with the claim that French police participated in protests against Macron’s Covid-19 measures.

But we have not found any credible mainstream media report to substantiate the claims. Rather, there are reports of French police using force to control protesters.