On the morning of June 6, the hashtag #JyotiradityaScindia was among the top three trends on Twitter after netizens started claiming that the Gwalior royal family scion has removed “BJP” from his Twitter bio, and he might quit the BJP as well after leaving Congress in March this year.

At present, Scindia’s Twitter profile says he is a public servant and cricket enthusiast.

advertisement

Among many, Twitter account “First India” tweeted a screenshot of Scindia’s bio and wrote, “#MadhyaPradesh | Politician Jyotiraditya Scindia, who recently left the Congress and joined the BJP, has removed the word BJP from his ‘Twitter’ account.” Many social media users said the former MP is preparing for ‘Ghar Wapsi’, indicating that he’s rejoining the Grand Old Party.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that viral posts saying Scindia removed “BJP” from his Twitter bio are misleading. Scindia never added “BJP” in the first place in his Twitter bio after joining the party in March.

As per Spoonbill, an online tool that tracks profile changes of Twitter users, Scindia had last changed his Twitter bio on November 17, 2019, while in Congress.

At that time, Scindia had removed the designation of former MP and former Union minister to “Public servant, cricket enthusiast”. After this, Scindia never changed his Twitter bio. He changed his profile picture when he joined the BJP in March.

AFWA also found an archive of Scindia’s Twitter profile saved on May 17 in digital archive tool “Wayback Machine”.

Here too, Scindia’s bio reads “Public servant, cricket enthusiast”. This proves he never changed his Twitter bio after joining BJP. He has also confirmed the same on Twitter.

Some days back, using the screenshot of a parody account of news channel “India TV”, it was claimed that Scindia is on his way out of the BJP. India Today AFWA had then debunked the claim.

Scindia, Congress, and BJP

Jyotiraditya Scindia, former MP from Guna in Madhya Pradesh, had joined the BJP on March 11 this year after an 18-year-long association with the Congress. This move toppled the Kamal Nath government in MP as 22 MLAs loyal to Scindia resigned from Congress and joined BJP. This paved the way for the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government to return to power.