A video of Yogi Adityanath was shared widely on social media with the claim that the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister urged people to boycott Shah Rukh Khan’s upcoming film ‘Pathan’.

In the short video clip, Adityanath can be heard slamming the Bollywood star in Hindi. His words roughly translate to, “Some so-called left-minded artists and authors have started making anti-national statements. Unfortunately, Shah Rukh Khan is one of them. This is not the first time. He has acted like this in the past as well.”

advertisement

He further said in the video, “Shah Rukh Khan should remember that if the majority community boycotts his films, he will have to wander the streets like an ordinary Muslim.” He then alleged that there was an international conspiracy to malign India’s image, and compared Khan’s words to those of Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed.

Many shared this video with captions like, “Yogi Adityanath’s message for all to boycott Shah Rukh Khan’s film ‘Pathan’.”

Archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim alongside the video to be misleading. The video is about seven years old and has nothing to do with Khan’s upcoming film.

AFWA PROBE

One can see at the very beginning of the video that Adityanath was identified as “Leader, BJP” and not Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. This suggested that the video may be old, from before his first tenure as the CM.

When we searched for news reports with keywords like “Shah Rukh”, “Yogi Adityanath”, and “Hafiz Saeed”, we came across a report in The Indian Express from November 5, 2015. At that time, Adityanath was an MP from Gorakhpur. The headline read, “SRK talks like Hafiz Saeed, can go to Pakistan: Yogi Adityanath.”

Per the report, two days after Khan said there was “growing intolerance” in the country, the then-Bharatiya Janata Party MP compared him to Saeed and said he was “welcome” to go to Pakistan. We also came across a report in The Hindu that mentioned that during his 50th birthday celebration in 2015, Khan expressed the aforementioned concerns over “growing intolerance”.

When we searched with relevant keywords for videos of Adityanath’s 2015 comments, we found a video clip on ANI’s YouTube channel from November 4, 2015. We compared it with the viral video and found the two to be the same.

The original video can be seen below.

Thus, it was clear that the viral video of Yogi Adityanath slamming Shah Rukh Khan had nothing to do with ‘Pathan’. It was from before Adityanath was the UP CM and was a reaction to Khan’s comments on intolerance in India.