As the mortal remains of the 20 soldiers, who laid down their lives for the nation fighting the Chinese Army in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, reached their native places, a photograph of coffins in a plane is getting viral on social media. It is being claimed that these are the coffins of the 20 soldiers who martyred in Galwan Valley.

advertisement Gift frm China I am emotional n hence i pledge not a rupee will i spend on anything dat is manufactured in or imported frm #China

As a country v hv 2take a non emotional approach n launch a new #industrial #revolution 2fast forward #chinese decline. RT if u took a pledge pic.twitter.com/iNVfXGzt9b — Sanjoy (@tweetsSANJOY) June 18, 2020

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is available on the Internet from February 2019. It was shared by many social media users after the Pulwama attack which took away the lives of 40 CRPF jawans on February 14, 2019.



The archived version of the post can be seen here.



Among others, a Twitter user Sanjoy shared the image with the caption: "Gift frm China. I am emotional n hence i pledge not a rupee will i spend on anything dat is manufactured in or imported frm #China. As a country v hv 2take a non emotional approach n launch a new #industrial #revolution 2fast forward #chinese decline. RT if u took a pledge."

AFWA probe



On closer look, we found that there are more than 20 coffins in the viral photo, which is easily visible in the post.

We ran a reverse search on the viral image and found that the viral image is already available on the internet since February 2019. We found that several Facebook users had shared this image after February 14, 2019, the date when Pulwama terror attack had took place.



We also found the photo in a Reddit post, in which it was claimed that the coffins are of the Indian soldiers, who were killed in Pulwama terror attack.

On the other hand, the mortal remains of the soldiers killed in Ladakh arrived in several states for their last rites. One can see the black and brown-coloured coffin in the photos released by the news agency ANI.

On the other hand, the coffins in the viral photo are brown in colour and looks like a cardboard box. This can also be seen in media reports.

Paste the image "Coffins" here.

This image went viral last year with a different claim. The claim was debunked by Aaj Tak earlier.



Therefore, it is clear that the viral image is not the recent one and has no connection with the recent clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh. However, we could not find the exact origin of the viral image.