Video of Mumbai police warning people against receiving calls from numbers that starts with 140 is going viral again. It is claimed that such calls can “loot your bank balance” and “hack your mobile phone” if you receive them.

We received fact-check requests about this video on our WhatsApp FactLine number (9049053770).

We found that these claims are misleading and call from ‘140’ numbers cannot empty bank balance.

WHAT’S THE CLAIM?

In the viral video, a Mumbai police officer is making a public announcement. He warns people “not to pick up calls from numbers which start with 140. It may hack the bank accounts and mobile too. So be aware of such calls.”

BEWARE OF BOGUS CALLS!

Especially numbers starting with 1 or 120 or 140 after country code. These are calls to loot your bank balance. I got a call from +911205083916. I did not take the call. Also reject +91140… as in video. pic.twitter.com/HHMpwg8OhN — Mumbeye (@AmitavaSumat) July 9, 2022

FACT CHECK

First of all, these claims about calls from ‘140’ numbers are not new. These videos first went viral back in 2020 during the Covid-19 pandemic.

At the time, Maharashtra Cyber Police clarified that these are just rumours and mobile numbers starting with ‘+140’ are just for telemarketing purposes.

They also warned not to give personal details, PIN, and OTP to anybody.

In any case, and in ALL cases, People should NOT share their confidential banking or personal details or OTP with such callers. (2/n) — Maharashtra Cyber (@MahaCyber1) July 10, 2020

“We would like to clarify that numbers starting with +140 are telemarketing calls. No need to panic when receiving such calls,” the state cyber police tweeted. “In any case, and in all cases, people should NOT share their confidential banking or personal details with such callers.

In another tweet in Marathi, the cyber police said, unless you give CVV, PIN number, OTP, and other bank details, it is not possible to access a bank account. Still, it is advisable that you should not share Credit/Debit card numbers with any random calls.

महाराष्ट्र सायबर तर्फे सर्व नागरिकांना असे आवाहन करण्यात येते की,

140 या अंकाने सुरुवात होणाऱ्या अनोळखी क्रमांका वरून आलेला फोन कॉल रिसीव केला तर आपल्या खात्यातील सर्व पैसे काढले जाऊन अकाउंट शून्य होते असे जे संदेश समाज माध्यमावर फिरत आहेत. त्या संदेशामध्ये (1/n) — Maharashtra Cyber (@MahaCyber1) July 11, 2020

A PRANK GONE WRONG

At the same time in July 2020, people were receiving calls from the +911408800135 number in which a person from another end would tell about a murder he witnessed.

People started complaining about these calls to the police. The main control room of Mumbai Police started getting calls from people in the afternoon that they had received strange calls from numbers starting with 140 or 40, reports NDTV.

Maharashtra Cyber clarified that the distressing calls were part of promotional activity by Sony Liv for their show ‘Undekhi’.

It has come to our attention that a Sony Liv, a tv channel has used a tactic for the promotion of its new show by calling people and playing a disturbing voice recording. If you receive any such call, please do not panic and create rumours. (1/n) — Maharashtra Cyber (@MahaCyber1) July 10, 2020

“If you receive any such call, please do not panic and create rumours. We have instructed the channel to cease this promotional activity immediately,” Cyber cell reassured.

Mumbai police also warned that any publicity creating panic amongst citizens and suggesting a threat to their security will be dealt with necessary severity.”

Later, Sony Liv also issued an apology on Twitter.

If you have received a call for our show Undekhi & it has disturbed you we would like to sincerely apologise to you. This was a test activity which has gone out accidentally & our intention was not to cause any kind of discomfort or panic. We sincerely regret any inconvenience. — Sony LIV (@SonyLIV) July 10, 2020

CONCLUSION

Hence, the claims about calls from numbers starting with +140 are just rumours. Answering calls from such numbers will not lead to bank accounts being hacked.