Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi is often a target of social media users. Fake, misleading, and factless news stories against Rahul keep going viral. Similarly, a video of Rahul Gandhi is again going viral. In this video, a woman is talking angrily to Rahul Gandhi on a flight. Users are sharing this video with the claim that a Kashmiri woman is asking questions to Rahul Gandhi for opposing PM Modi on the Kashmir issue. Some users are claiming that Kashmiri Pandits are asking questions about Rahul Gandhi on the plane by Kashmiri Hindus.

One user wrote- ” Kashmiri Pandits living abroad met Rahul while traveling in an airplane. Surrounding Gandhi and asking the question, why does he oppose Modi on the issues of Kashmir? Rahul Gandhi could not give an answer to this, the national media could hardly show this news. ,

विदेश में रह रहे कश्मीरी पंडितों ने हवाई जहाज में यात्रा के दौरान Rahul Gandhi को घेर कर सवाल पूछे कि वो कश्मीर के मामलों पर मोदी का विरोध क्यों करते हैं?

इसका कोई जवाब राहुल गांधी नहीं दे पाया, राष्ट्रीय मीडिया शायद ही ये न्यूज़ दिखा पाए। pic.twitter.com/56mAyqQ3a4 — Dilip Kumar Singh (@DilipKu24388061) July 3, 2022

Another user wrote- ” Kashmiri Pandits surrounded Rahul Gandhi in the plane and asked .. why do you oppose Modi Ji on Kashmir. This shameless has no answer.”

कश्मीरी पंडितों ने राहुल गांधी को प्लेन में घेर कर पूछा

आप कश्मीर पर मोदी जी का विरोध क्यों करते हो

इस बेशर्म के पास कोई जवाब नही है pic.twitter.com/7pOKAIA5vN — ashok kumar awasthi (@ashokkumarawasr) July 1, 2022

At the same time, this video was also posted from the verified Twitter handles of ‘ Panchjanya @epanchjanya’ and ‘ Organizer Vikli @eOrganiser ‘.

Fact Check:

To find out about the reality of the viral video, we did a simple search on Google. During this time we did not get any news of Rahul Gandhi being opposed by Kashmiri Pandits or Kashmiri Hindus on the plane. After which we reverse searched some frames of the video. We found a tweet from Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on 25 August 2019. The video going viral can be seen in this tweet. Retweeting the tweet of journalist Arun Kumar Singh (@arunsingh4775 ). According to Arun Kumar Singh’s tweet, while returning from Srinagar, the Kashmiri woman expressed her pain to Rahul Gandhi. Arun Singh’s tweet is dated 24 August 2019.

How long is this going to continue?This is one out of millions of people who are being silenced and crushed in the name of “Nationalism”. For those who accuse the opposition of ‘politicising’ this issue: https://t.co/IMLmnTtbLb — Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) August 25, 2019

At the same time, we got a report from Dainik Bhaskar in this context. According to this report, Rahul Gandhi along with 11 leaders of 8 opposition parties had reached Srinagar to take stock of the situation in Kashmir and talk to the citizens there. There the administration returned all the leaders back to Delhi citing security. Meanwhile, a woman in the plane narrated her pain to Rahul Gandhi.

Also Read: DFRAC Exclusive: Fake handles from Pakistan posting sensual content and deceiving Twitteratis

Conclusion:

Therefore, the video going viral of Rahul Gandhi is 3 years old. In this video, the Kashmiri woman is not asking questions to Rahul Gandhi, but is telling her grief to him. Hence, this video is going viral on social media in a misleading way.

Claim- Kashmiri Hindus surrounded Rahul Gandhi and asking questions

Claimant- Social media users

Fact Check – Misleading