While Hyderabad is popular for its diverse food culture, the traditional ‘Naan ki Roti’ remains a personal favorite for locals in the Old City area. Now, a disturbing video of a man spitting on rotis before putting them inside a tandoor is circulating on social media with the claim that the incident was recorded at Red Rose Palace in Hyderabad’s Nampally.

advertisement

The caption in Hindi along with the video translates to, “The person making Naan ki Roti at Red Rose in Nampally is spitting on every roti.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that while the video is true, the incident took place in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut and not Hyderabad. Also, the man seen in the video has been identified and arrested by Meerut police.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Using appropriate keywords, we found several news reports confirming that the video is from Meerut and the man was caught by police.

According to a “Hindustan Times” report, which carried a screengrab from the same video, the incident took place at Aroma Gardens in Meerut and the man in the video has been identified as Sohail.

According to a February 22 report by “India Today”, as soon as the video went viral, Hindu Jagran Manch activists protested outside LLRM police station in Meerut demanding action against the man.

Following this, the man was arrested by Meerut Police and an FIR registered against him, says the report. Sohail was cooking at a wedding when the incident was recorded. Meerut Police also shared a post on its official Twitter handle confirming the arrest.

Hence, it is clear that the video being circulated is from Meerut and not Hyderabad, and the man seen spitting on rotis has been arrested by police.

READ | Fact Check: Picture of Greta Thunberg having food in front of poor kids is morphed

READ | Fact Check: Web series shoot passed off as terrorists nabbed in Mumbai

WATCH | Fact Check Video: No, this green flag in a Congress rally is not a Pakistani flag