After the Coronavirus outbreak in India, the country has come together to fight against the virus. Countrieshave been put into lockdown, schools closed, events canceled, factories shuttered, millionstold to workfrom home and emergency funds released.

Amidst this we came across a viral message circulating on social media claiming that from 24th March 2020 during lockdown all grocery, milk, chemist, vegetable shops will be open from 9.00 am to 11.30 am in the morning and 4.30 pm to 7.00 pm in the evening. Anybody found moving around after this or opening any kind of outlet will be strictly detained by the police. It also claims that no home deliveries will be available.

The message reads “Please note all …Grocery ,milk,Chemist , vegetable shops will be open from Tomorrow – 24th March 2020, 9.00 am to 11.30 am in Morning, 4.30 pm to 7.00 pm in evening. Anybody found moving around after this or opening any kind of outlet …Will be detained ..By Police ..Strict Action By Police…Please note …No Home Delieveries also.”

Fact Crescendo received a Fact Check request on our WhatsApp number 9049053770 to verify the authenticity of this viral message.

Facebook Post

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a simple keyword search on Google, which led us to a tweet published by the official account of Delhi Police on 24th March 2020. The tweets reads as“Fake News Alert! Don’t pay attention to such unsubstantiated messages. Do not forward them. Spreading rumours to create panic is a punishable offense.”

Fake News Alert!

Don't pay attention to such unsubstantiated messages. Do not forward them. Spreading rumours to create panic is a punishable offense. pic.twitter.com/USTDW4ViRT — Delhi Police (@DelhiPolice) March 24, 2020

Archive Link

The Spokeperson, Ministry of Home Affairs also tweeted the viral message claiming it to be “Fake News” on the 24th March 2020.

Archive Link

Conclusion– Fact Crescendo found the above mentioned message to be False. Delhi Police has clarified that the viral message on social media is Fake.