A video of a girl singing the popular devotional song ‘Harivarasanam’ in a mesmerising voice is viral on social media with the claim that she is Ammeya Yesudas, the granddaughter of legendary singer KJ Yesudas.

Several Facebook users shared the video with the claim, “She is renowned singer K.J. Yesudas’s granddaughter Ameya. Such a mesmerizing song comes out when its sung by a devotee with devotion.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the girl in the viral video is not the granddaughter of KJ Yesudas. She is Srilalitha Bhamidipati, a singer from Andhra Pradesh.

A notable fact about ‘Harivarasanam’ is that it is a special song sung at Kerala’s Sabarimala temple and known as the lullaby to Lord Ayyappa. There are many versions of the song, but the most popular is the one sung by Yesudas.

AFWA probe

We found that some social media users pointed out that the girl in the viral video is Srilalitha Bhamidipati. Taking a cue from this, we did a keyword search and found the same video in her YouTube channel, uploaded on December 17, 2019.

Srilalitha had shared the same video on her Facebook page as well on the same date. According to the about section of her Facebook page, the singer resides in Andhra Pradesh.

We contacted Srilalitha for clarification on the viral claim. Replying to our email, she wrote, “Many Facebook pages and YouTube channels have uploaded my song with the caption that I am the granddaughter of KJ Yesudas sir. I have commented on many such posts that I am Srilalitha Bhamidipati, and not Ammeya Yesudas. I am his greatest fan of course, but not his granddaughter.”

KJ Yesudas was awarded Padma Shri in 1975, Padma Bhushan in 2002 and Padma Vibhushan in 2017. He has recorded more than 50,000 songs in several languages.

Ammeya Yesudas is the daughter of KJ Yesudas’s son Vijay. We found a picture of Ammeya shared by Vijay on his Instagram page and compared it with a screen grab from the viral video. Looking at these pictures, it is evident that Ammeya is much younger to Srilalitha.

In January 2017, Mathrubhumi website recorded a video of KJ Yesudas singing with Ammeya. The video can be seen below.

Hence, it is evident that a recording of Andhra singer Srilalitha Bhamidipati is being falsely shared as that of KJ Yesudas’s granddaughter Ammeya.