In the background of countrywide shortage of oxygen supply, a video is going viral propagating a scientifically unproven solution for patients suffering from low levels of oxygen.

The man in the viral video, one Dr. Alok from Sarvodaya Hospital, claims that nebulizers can be used for oxygen supply if an oxygen cylinder is not available.

Fact Crescendo received many fact-check requests about this video on our WhatsApp Factline (9049053770).

Medical experts have refuted the claims made in the video and clarified that a nebulizer is not meant to be used as a substitute for an oxygen cylinder.

WHAT’S THE CLAIM?

In the 45-second video clip, a man in a blue scrub shows how to use a nebulizer for oxygen supply in case an oxygen cylinder is not available.

“Rather than risking of your life running after oxygen cylinder, use empty nebulization machine at home. It will provide enough oxygen through the free air,” says the man.

Dr Alok from Sarvodaya Hospital Faridabad, He has shown an excellent technique using nebulizer to improve the levels of blood oxygen level. In today's scenario of Oxygen crisis this can save lives of many. @PandaJay @adeshguptabjp @siddharthanbjp @AshokGoelBJP #DelhifightsCorona pic.twitter.com/de3KCYphlz — SAHIL YADAV (मोदी का परिवार ) (@bjpsahilyadav) April 23, 2021

People are sharing this video assuming “Dr. Alok from Sarvodaya Hospital Faridabad is showing an excellent technique using a nebulizer to improve the levels of blood oxygen level.”

Others said “Don’t get panic for oxygen cylinders if they r not available please Use Nebulizer at home”

The same video is also being widely shared on Facebook.

FACT CHECK

First, we checked with Sarvodaya Hospital at Faridabad to check the veracity of the video.

We found that the Sarvodaya Hospital has categorically denied any association with the said video and termed it as unscientific. It also asked people not to believe or follow the instructions given in the video.

“The video on the use of nebulizer as a substitute for an oxygen cylinder has not been backed by any evidence or scientific study, does not reflect any medical advice, and is in no way endorsed by Sarvodaya Hospital, Faridabad,” reads the statement given by the hospital.

Always consult a medical practitioner before following any #medication practice, especially for #treatment of severe conditions. Do not fall prey to any information without an authorized source.#awareness #SarvodayaHealthcare #SHRC pic.twitter.com/itTVLfYqkd — Sarvodaya Healthcare (@Sarvodaya_Care) April 23, 2021

Not only Sarvodaya Hospital but medical experts and doctors also discarded this video.

Discrediting the claims in the video, Group chairman of Medanta Hospital Dr. Arvinder Singh Soin said on Twitter, “The video demonstrating a purported technique that can substitute a nebulizer machine for an oxygen cylinder to improve blood oxygen levels is totally baseless. It should be.”

The video demonstrating a purported technique that can substitute a nebulizer machine for an oxygen cylinder to improve blood oxygen levels is totally baseless. It should be discredited. — Dr. Arvinder Singh Soin (@ArvinderSoin) April 24, 2021

According to India Today, the name of the man in the video is Dr. Alok Sethi who admitted that the information in the video is completely false.

As per the report, “He was just trying to explain the method of using a nebulizer. But when he tried to connect it with the ongoing oxygen crisis, it resulted in a misleading video.”

What is Nebulizer?

A nebulizer is a drug delivery device used to administer medication in the form of a mist inhaled into the lungs.

According to American Lung Association, Nebulizers are often recommended for patients who have a hard time using inhalers because of health issues, or patients who are unable to inhale deeply enough for other devices.

Many people with chronic lung diseases such as COPD or asthma use a nebulizer to take their medication in the form of a mist that is inhaled into the lungs.

CONCLUSION

One should not use a nebulizer as an alternative to an oxygen cylinder. Sarvodaya Hospital, Medical experts, and the man in the viral video himself clarified that the claims made in the video are not based on scientific facts and are completely false. Before believing or sharing such viral messages, please verify them with doctors or send them to our WhatsApp Factline (9049053770) for a fact-check.