A picture of Union Home minister Amit Shah is widely circulating on social media, with netizens claiming he was reading the blank reverse side of the Preamble.

Trinamool Congress spokesperson Saket Gokhale tweeted the picture with the caption, “Mr. @AmitShah at least pretend to read the correct side of the printed preamble & not the blank reverse side.”

advertisement

Many Facebook users have also posted the same content.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture was taken during Constitution Day celebrations in Parliament on November 26. The Preamble leaflet had two sides with the text in English and Hindi respectively. Members were reading the Preamble in Hindi.

The viral posts have been archived here and here.

AFWA probe

On November 26, Constitution Day was celebrated in the Parliament where members read the Preamble after the President of India. We have found the entire video of the event from the YouTube channel of “Sansad TV”.

In this video, after 1 hour and 20 minutes, the members can be seen standing up and repeating the Preamble after the President. Amit Shah, along with other distinguished members of the House such as the Prime Minister and Defence Minister, can also be seen reading out the Preamble from a leaflet in Hindi.

AFWA spoke to senior Rajya Sabha MP Prasanna Acharya of BJD one of the dignitaries present at the event. “The Preamble leaflet had two sides with the text in English and Hindi respectively. Members were reading the Preamble in Hindi. So naturally, we were looking at the side where the Hindi text was printed,” he confirmed.

In the website “Narendra Modi”, several pictures of the Constitution Day celebrations in Parliament are published. In one of the pictures, the PM can be seen reading a Preamble leaflet just like Amit Shah where the English text is visible on the other side.

So, from the above evidence, we can conclude that the viral claim ridiculing Amit Shah and claiming that he was reading a blank reverse side of the Preamble is untrue. Shah, like all other members, was actually reading the Hindi text of the Preamble. Hence, the English text on the other side of the leaflet was snapped in the photograph.

READ: Fact Check: Are these UPTET aspirants sleeping in the open on a cold night?

ALSO READ: Fact Check: This woman was arrested not for killing her rapists but her fiancé