While the flood situation in the North Eastern state of Assam has improved, pictures and videos of flood-affected areas are still doing the rounds on social media. One such picture, being actively shared, is that of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) carrying a sack of rice on his back at a relief camp. Praises have been heaped upon the MLA for doing a good deed.

None of the shares mentioned the name of the MLA in the photo which raised doubt over its authenticity, thus, India Today Fact Check Team tried to find out the identity of this MLA.

Our investigation led us to a similar picture which was shared last year as well and interestingly it was shared during the flood period in Assam. The picture again did not mention the name of the MLA.

Further search led us to some local reports on flood relief suggesting it was Rupjyoti Kurmi, MLA from Mariani constituency and that he is from Congress party and not the BJP!

Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi. (Photo: Facebook/mlarupjyotikurmi)

We spoke to Kurmi who confirmed that it was indeed his picture which was taken last year. He told India Today,'Yes, this photo was taken when I had gone to a flood relief camp in a lower primary school in a tea garden in Bokakhat constituency near Kaziranga National Park.' 'I had a fleet of 40 mini trucks with food and relief material and since my friends were helping in this mission, it would have been improper to just ask them to carry rice sacks, so I also picked some bags to the camp which were 25 kg,' he added.

The MLA said that he was aware that his pictures were being shared as that of a BJP MLA doing good work in flood relief. 'See its a BJP government and their leaders are indulging in all sorts of propaganda, so it's not a surprise that their workers are doing the same,' he alleged. 'We tried to stop this misinformation by publishing information in local dailies, but the practice continues,' said the MLA.

Kurmi was recently in the news for ploughing a paddy field with a cow in Mariani. He also helped in the river embankment work.

From our investigation, it turned out that though the picture shared on social media was genuine, it was wrongly attributed to as that of a BJP MLA.

READ| This Congress MLA works alongside labourers in paddy fields in Assam

WATCH| Congress MLA apologises to voters in Assam