A Facebook user named ‘Shashi Bhanu Singh’ shared a post on 9 June 2019. The post shares a screenshot of BBC News. The post as translated from Hindi quoted “Narendra Damodara Das Gandhi will make mosques with a sum of 100 crores in the Maldives. Modi we did not expect this from you.” This post claims that Narendra Modi has promised to spend 100 crores to make mosques in Maldives. Let us see what the facts are!

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

First, we searched for the BBC news. This news states that Narendra Modi said, “We have agreed to support infrastructure development and construction of historic Juma mosque in Adu.” There is no mention of the construction of so many mosques using 100 million in this news. Prime Minister Modi has spoken about supporting the re-construction of the old Zuma mosque in Maldives.

BBCPost | ArchivedLink

After this, we searched on Google with ‘juma masjid in maldives’ key words in which we received a news from ‘The Hindu’ on 9 June 2019. This news quoted from the PTI, which said that Prime Minister Modi, while addressing the Muslim-majority parliament of the Maldives called “The People’s Majlis’ had announced that India will support in the promotion of the historic Juma mosque in Malaya.

In this news too, Prime Minister Modi has not spoken of investing 100 crores for the construction of mosques.

TheHinduPost | ArchivedLink

Apart from this, we got another news broadcast by ‘India Today’ on 9 June 2019, which states that India will support and help in the promotion of the historic Juma mosque located in Maldives. In this news too, Prime Minister Modi has not spoken of the construction of mosques using 100 crores.

IndiatodayPost | ArchivedLink

Apart from this, we received a tweet by ANI. This tweet says that Prime Minister Modi has spoken of supporting the Maldives in the promotion of Maldives’s historic Zuma mosque.

PM Narendra Modi addressing the People's Majlis in Male, #Maldives : I felt great to have announced today that India will contribute in conservation of Maldives' Friday Mosque. There's no such mosque elsewhere in the world like this historical mosque made up of coral. pic.twitter.com/FNabSjhBx0 — ANI (@ANI) June 8, 2019

ANITweet | ArchivedLink

Along with this, we found a tweet by Prime Minister Modi, in which he has announced the promotion of Zuma Masjid while addressing the Parliament. You can see that tweet below, as well as listen to that part of the declaration. The Prime Minister has said in a clear word of cooperation in the promotion of Zuma Masjid, without talking about spending 100 crores for the construction of new mosques, as claimed in the above post.

We cherish the strong historical and cultural ties between India and the Republic of Maldives.



India is proud to support various measures that will boost people-to-people relations between our nations. pic.twitter.com/9xSBMsNP34 — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) June 9, 2019

TwitterLink | ArchivedLink

To inform you, the ‘Zuma Masjid’ or ‘Friday Mosque’ is in Male city of Maldives and was built in 1658. This is one of the very ancient mosques of Male, which is made of coral. However, the deteriorating environment is causing threats to the monument. Hence, efforts are made to save this heritage.

To know more about this mosque, you can see the video below.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact checked and confirms that the photograph is being share in the post with a wrong narrative. We categorise the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased photographs and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.