A photo is going viral on social media. Users are sharing this photo claiming that this photo is of a temple in Chittorgarh, which was demolished and converted into a mosque by the Mughal emperors. It can be seen in this photo that below are the walls of the temple and above is the dome shape of the mosque.

Social media users are commenting on India’s Ganga-Jamuni Tehzeeb by sharing this photo. Sharing this photo, a user writes- “Stunningly beautiful walls…with an ugly looking dome! This is an old Hindu temple in Chittor converted into a mosque by Mughals … Will any Historian highlight this???? #GyanvapiMosque #TajMahal”

https://twitter.com/SujinEswar1/status/1523519450393169920?s=20&t=rRPwDo6dPGBrj2ARVzDbiA

At the same time, another user wrote on Facebook – “Chandrashmi Singh – This is an old Hindu temple of Chittor which was converted into a mosque by the Mughals. Will any historian uncover this??”

Many other users have also posted the photo with the same caption.

Fact Check:

To fact-check the picture going viral on social media, a reverse image search was done on Google. This picture was found on the website of alamy.com, which was posted on 16 December 2009. According to this website, this is an old Hindu temple.

At the same time, on searching more about it, we found a published report on the website of thinkingparticle.com. The viral picture is attached to this report. According to this report, this is the Sringar Chauri temple located inside Chittorgarh, Rajasthan, which was built in 1448 AD.

https://www.thinkingparticle.com/blog/chittorgarh-largest-fort-india

Conclusion:

Our fact check proves that the claims being made by social media users are false and misleading. The claim that the Mughals demolished the temple and built a mosque is false because the temple located in the Chittorgarh Fort is still present, which is called Sringar Chauri Temple.

Claim- Mughals had built a mosque by breaking the temple in Chittor

Claimant- Social media users

Fact Check – Misleading