A video of BJP MP Narendra Kumar Khichad from Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan is going viral on social media. In this video, Narendra Kumar Khichar claims that the founder of Azad Hind Fauj, Subhash Chandra Bose got killed by Mahatma Gandhi.

While sharing this video, journalist Alok Puttul writes – “BJP MP Narendra Kumar Khichar says that Mahatma Gandhi got Subhash Chandra Bose murdered!”

At the same time, many other users have also shared this video. Users are also fiercely criticizing BJP MP Narendra Kumar Khichar in his post. A user named Parminder Singh Bamba wrote- “BJP leaders have been continuously making controversial statements regarding Mahatma Gandhi. If PM Modi had acted against such elements in time, he would not have had the courage. The country will never forgive those who insulted Mahatma Gandhi.”

महात्मा गांधी को लेकर भाजपा नेता लगातार विवादित बयान देते रहे हैं। अगर पीएम मोदी ने समय रहते ऐसे तत्वों के ऊपर कार्रवाई की होती तो इनकी इतनी हिम्मत नहीं होती। महात्मा गांधी का अपमान करने वाले लोगों को देश कभी माफ नहीं करेगा। pic.twitter.com/oUfXesK6Ww — Parminder Singh Bhamba ਸਰਦਾਰ ਪਰਮਿੰਦਰ ਸਿੰਘ ਭੰਬਾ (@rajanbhamba) June 28, 2022

Fact Check:

To investigate the claim of BJP MP, we did a simple search on Google about Subhash Chandra Bose, popularly known as Netaji. During this we got a report of ‘Aaj Tak’ regarding his death. This report sheds light on the mystery behind Netaji’s death. The report reads- “Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose died in a plane crash on 18 August 1945 in Taipei. But did he really die, this mystery could not be solved. According to media reports, the matter of Netaji’s death had resurfaced when Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru’s sister Vijayalakshmi Pandit gave a statement in the media. She said that I have such news that there will be panic in India. Maybe even bigger news than freedom. But Nehru forbade her to say anything.”

At the same time, a similar report has also been published in ‘Amar Ujala‘ regarding the mystery of Netaji’s death.

During this time we did not get any information about Gandhiji’s involvement in the alleged assassination of Subhas Chandra Bose, nor is there any reference in Google or history books in this context.

Conclusion:

Our fact check proves that the claim made by the BJP MP is fake. Because the mystery of the death of Subhash Chandra Bose has not been solved till date. While presenting a clarification on the controversial statement, BJP MP Narendra Kumar Khichad said that he meant the political assassination of Subhash Chandra Bose.

Claim Review- Subhash Chandra Bose got killed by Gandhiji

Claimed by- Narendra Kumar Khichar, BJP MP

Fact Check – Fake