Monsoon rains have killed more than 150 people in Pakistan in the past month. It has led to damaged homes, roads, bridges, and power stations across the country. Flash floods have affected thousands of people.

Amid people sharing photos and videos of the disastrous conditions on social media, a video of an aeroplane moving through a flooded runway caught eyeballs. Many who shared the video claimed it was from Karachi airport.

advertisement

AFWA’s investigation found that while the inundated runway belongs to Karachi's Jinnah International Airport, the video is not recent at all — it has been on the internet since 2020 at least.

AFWA PROBE

Our initial searches about flooding at Karachi airport led us to a tweet by the Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority. Alongside the viral video, the tweet said the clip was nearly three years old and did not reflect present conditions.

An old video is being flushed around on social media that shows an airplane moving on a runway covered in water. Please note that this is an old video, nearly 3-year old, and does not depict the present situation at Karachi's JIAP, which is normal, with drains working normally. pic.twitter.com/wcM5VmQbFg — PCAAOfficial (@official_pcaa) July 11, 2022

"Please note that this is an old video, nearly 3 years old, and does not depict the present situation at Karachi's JIAP, which is normal, with drains working normally," the tweet said.

An independent investigation confirmed the PCAA's assertion. When reverse-searched, the video's keyframes revealed several YouTube videos published over the span of the last two years. The oldest one dated back to August 2020.

Also read: Fact Check: This mad, muddy river isn't seen ravaging Pakistan's Baluchistan, viral claim is misleading

"Exclusive!! PIA Plane Emergency Landing On Water At Airport In Floods," the title of a longer version of the video read. It was uploaded to the verified channel of '24 News HD' on August 27, 2020.

'Talk Shows Central', another verified YouTube channel with 54.9 lakh subscribers, also uploaded the video on the same day.

A fact check of the video by Agence France-Presse earlier this week also featured among the results. This report cited a Dunya News report from August 27, 2020.

According to Dunya News, Karachi had received a record rainfall of 319.2 mm that month, breaking the previous best from 1979. This resulted in the flooding of the airport. The development was also reported by AirLive.net on the following day — the report includes a screenshot of the video.

Hence, it is clear that a video from 2020 has been falsely shared as a recent incident.