An image of a man holding a placard against the Ram temple has gone viral with the claim that it was taken during the ongoing farmers’ agitation.

Many Twitter and Facebook users have shared the picture, raising questions on the real intent of the protests. Delhi BJP leader Kapil Mishra tweeted the picture asking if they are farmers, while some others have linked it with the Republic Day violence in the Capital.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture is from San Francisco, United States, where a pro-Khalistan rally was held on Republic Day in front of the Indian consulate. Anti-India and pro-Khalistan slogans were raised. Protest against the farm laws was also on the agenda.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, here and here.

The truth

On Facebook, some users had commented below the viral picture that it was from an event in California. Using a combination of keyword search and reverse image search, we found that the original picture with a broader view was posted by a Reddit user a couple of days back.

The viral image was tweeted by several verified users, including filmmaker Vivek Ranjan Agnihotri, on January 29, calling it a Khalistani protest in Silicon Valley.

In the meantime, Khalistanis in the Silicon Valley of USA.



Farmers Protest? Really?

Are you so naive? pic.twitter.com/k2MHyR4Pcw— Vivek Ranjan Agnihotri (@vivekagnihotri) January 29, 2021

Agnihotri had also tweeted a video of a protest from California, where Khalistan flags are clearly visible.

We found that on January 26, a pro-Khalistan demonstration took place in front of the Indian consulate in San Francisco, California. Pro-Khalistan slogans were raised, anti-India banners were displayed and posters demanding the release of Khalistani leaders were seen at the protest site. Farms laws too were part of the protest agenda.

A local news website at San Francisco had covered the event, which can be seen here.

Comparing the viral image and the picture posted by Agnihotri with the Google Street View Image of the Indian consulate in San Francisco and some other buildings, we are confirmed that the location is the same.

Hence, it can be said that the viral image showing a placard against Ram mandir is not from any farmer’s protest in India. The image is from San Francisco, where Pro-Khalistan supporters demonstrated in front of the Indian consulate on January 26.