A Facebook post with a collage of three images showing an ailing woman and a kid and a crying man has gone viral with an emotional appeal related to coronavirus.

The viral message on the Facebook post looks as if the man is appealing for prayers and more Facebook shares because his wife and daughter are suffering from coronavirus.

The caption reads " My wife and daughter are infected with corona virus please pray for them I don't want to loose them...Oh heavenly Father deliver any one who share this prayer from any form of CORONAVIRUS and DEATH.. I'm not asking for money just a single share and prayers. Please share to atleast 5 groups on Facebook so they can get more prayers don't be heartless to help a dying child and mother." (sic)

advertisement

The Facebook post also has a link to a blogpost which also asks the user to click for prayer.

India Today found these viral images are old and not related to each other. The viral message on Facebook is a ploy to get more shares by posting fictitious emotional stories related to coronavirus.

The archived version of the post is saved here.

The viral post has been shared by over 1,700 users and posted by several users on their pages.

Using reverse image search separately on each of the three images we found the original source and identity of these images.

This particular image of an ailing woman with an oxygen pipe and mask on her face is present on the internet for a couple of months. This image has been used by several users on Twitter and Facebook at various times, while everyone is claiming the woman to be their daughter who is supposedly infected with Covid-19.

This image was originally posted by one Facebook user "Portal Nunes" on March 24, 2020. But the user has also not shared any details of the woman and only asked for Facebook shares.

The viral image of the kid in a hospital bed has also been shared by many people on social media with various claims.

We found that this image of the kid along with two more had been shared by a website "animal forum" on March 31, 2020, with an appeal of a mother for prayers for her Covid-19 infected daughter. But later the article was removed from the website. The cached version can be seen here.

This viral image of a crying man is viral since 2017. This has been used by many on Twitter, Facebook, and on various other websites.

Conclusion

The identities of the three characters on the viral images can not be ascertained. We also do not know whether the woman and the kid are suffering from coronavirus. But, it is confirmed that the three characters are not related to each other. The viral post on Facebook has been created to cook up a fictitious story to use it as a clickbait to get more shares.

India Today had earlier debunked similar kinds of false viral claims, which can be seen here.