A set of two photos has gone viral on social media with the claim that a 28-year-old doctor in Maharashtra, Dr. Maneesha Patil, has died of Covid-19 while treating patients infected with coronavirus. While one of the photos shows a woman with a stethoscope around her neck, the other shows a woman and a man in medical costume.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the photos is false. The viral photos are of Dr. Richa Rajpoot from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Richa is doing fine and she is not treating coronavirus patients.

advertisement

Among others, Facebook page "Poonam Verma" posted the photos with the false claim. The post has received more than 29,000 likes and was shared over 1,100 times till the filing of this story. The archived version can be seen here.

The Hindi caption of the viral post translates to, "This is to inform you all with deep regret that 28-year-old Dr. Maneesha Patil of Maharashtra died due to coronavirus. Manisha had cured many people but she could not save herself. May her soul rest in peace."

The post is being widely circulated on Facebook and Twitter.

AFWA investigation

Using reverse image search and keywords, we came to know that the woman in the viral picture is Dr. Richa Rajpoot. AFWA reached out to her regarding the post.

Richa confirmed that the picture is indeed of her. She said she is doing fine and is presently staying at her residence in Kanpur. She also told us that she is a homeopathy doctor and is currently helping out those seeking general medical advice online.

Richa clearly said she is not treating coronavirus patients and is voluntarily helping out healthcare workers during the pandemic. She also said that she is a BJP member in Uttar Pradesh and a social worker.

On her images going viral, Richa said she had tweeted the two photos on April 25 as part of the #BlueTwitter trend on the social media platform. She fears someone must have taken the pictures from there and shared them with the false claim, which later went viral. As per Richa, these pictures are old and were not clicked during the ongoing pandemic.

Hence, it is clear that the viral post is false. The woman seen in the photos is Dr. Richa Rajpoot from Kanpur and she is doing fine.