A video is going viral on social media sites. In the context of the terrorist murder of Kanhaiyalal in Udaipur, this video is being shared by users, demanding action by sharing it as recent. Sharing the video CJ Werleman Sho wrote the caption, “A Hindutva goon with alleged ties to RSS dressed up as a Muslim to instigate communal riots. He was caught and handed over to police in Sayyid Colony, Jaipur.”

Similarly, MIRZA BAIG gave the video caption, “Udaipur killers might be RSS guys below is the video of this man allegedly having links with RSS, was preparing to instigate riots by wearing Kurta-Pajama, sporting a beard in Jaipur. caught and handed over to the police. Zubeida Mosque, Sayyid Colony, Jaipur. ”

https://twitter.com/BaigsonAuctions/status/1542534380643422208

Likewise, many social media users have shared this video with the similar claim.

Fact Check

On reverse-searching different frames of this video on the Internet, DFRAC found that the same video was tweeted on June 14, 2022 by the Twitter handle @BPPDELNP.

At the same time, when DFRAC spoke to an eyewitness of this incident from Jaipur, it came to light that this person belonging to Sindhi community had become a Muslim 15 years ago. He is a resident of Tonk, later came to Jaipur. It appealed for help from the worshipers in the mosque for treatment. Some people said that we suspect that he is a Hindu and comes to the mosque posing as a Muslim and collects donations and takes it away.

After this some people of the committee of the mosque inquired. He was handed over to the police for not getting the identity card etc.

During the interrogation of the police, he told that he was a Hindu earlier, but is now a Muslim. His family members are also Muslims. On the second day, the local people themselves got bail. This person has nothing to do with RSS.

On the question of DFRAC whether he is related to RSS? Eyewitnesses told that there is nothing like this. it was spread by deception

Conclusion:

It is clear from this fact check of DFRAC that this video is old, which is being shared misleadingly by users in the context of Kanhaiyalal murder case.

Claim: Hindu person disguised as Muslim in mosque

Claimant: The CJ Werleman Show and other users

Fact Check: Misleading