After losing to Pakistan in their first match, India’s hopes to qualify for the semis of the T20 World Cup took a huge dent on Sunday as Virat Kohli’s men suffered another defeat against New Zealand.

With this defeat, social media users started analysing India’s performance against the Kiwis, especially in ICC events such as limited over tournaments and T20 World Cups. Many Facebook users have claimed, “India has never beaten New Zealand in ICC events.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. It is true that India never won against the Black Caps in a T20 World Cup match. But in the 50-over format, India has won three of the eight ICC World Cup matches against New Zealand.

While investigating the claim, we first conducted a keyword search to find head-to-head World Cup clashes between India and New Zealand.

T20 World Cups

We found a media report published after Sunday’s clash, which said that India and New Zealand have played three matches in T20 World Cups so far and the Men in Blue have lost all three.

Before the match on Sunday, India had lost to New Zealand in the 2016 and 2007 T20 World Cups.

ICC World Cups

We found an India Today report dated July 9, 2019, which was just before the first semi-final of the last limited over World Cup.

The report says that till then, India had played seven limited over World Cup matches against New Zealand. Of these, New Zealand had won four, while Team India won three. Since India lost the 2019 World Cup semi-final against the Kiwis, the present World Cup head-to-head status would be 5-3 in favour of New Zealand.

A keyword search on the ESPN-cricinfo website also confirmed the same. It further shows that India had played only one match against New Zealand in ICC Champions Trophy, which it lost.

A detailed search on this website revealed that India had won two group matches against New Zealand in the 1987 World Cup in Bengaluru and Nagpur. Then again, a Sourav Ganguly-led side had defeated New Zealand in the 2003 World Cup in Pretoria, South Africa.

Hence, we can conclude that the viral claim is misleading. India has beaten New Zealand thrice in limited over World Cup matches.

Also read: Fact Check: Netizens drive on the wrong side of facts on PM Modi’s Italy tour

Also read: Fact Check: False statement attributed to Dr Devi Shetty on Puneeth Rajkumar’s death goes viral