A shocking video of a man getting beaten up while posing has gone viral on social media. Several users have shared this clip claiming that the “goons from the saffron gang” have killed a man named Subham Gupta after torturing him in this manner.

In the viral video (abusive language, viewer's discretion is advised), a man is forced to pose like a ‘murga’ (chicken) -- a posture of punishment. The victim can be seen getting beaten up by the man with a rod while some others abuse him.

advertisement

Users have posted this video alongside a caption in Hindi that translates to, "See how the saffron gang goons killed Subham Gupta. The man, who is seen beating, has been identified as Raja Dwivedi, sibling of former Uttar Pradesh MLA Purushottam Naresh Trivedi. ”

Leader of the Samajwadi Party and Hardoi’s district president Jitendra Verma shared this 45-second clip claiming this incident to be from the Banda district.

Archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be misleading as the video is originally from UP’s Shahjahanpur, not Banda. Also, the man seen beating the victim is not Raja Dwivedi.

AFWA Probe

With the help of the InVid tool, we ran a Google reverse image search of its keyframes. The results led us to a report published by “The Lallantop” that had the same images.

However, the report mentioned this incident to be from UP’s Shahjahanpur. Also, the name of the person who was seen beating the man in a white shirt was mentioned as Prateek Tiwari.

A keyword search using these terms took us to an “Amar Ujala” article published on April 17, 2022. It said that a case has been registered following the incident against six people, including the main accused Prateek Tiwari.

For further details, we reached out to India Today correspondent Vinay Pandey in Shahjahpur. He confirmed that the incident happened on March 13 after the main accused Prateek Tiwari called up a man named Rajeev Bhardwaj to hold an urgent discussion and beat him.

After the month-old video went viral on social media, the police started searching for the victim, Rajeev Bhardwaj, and an FIR was lodged.

According to the SP of the Shahjahanpur city police, Sanjay Kumar, “After investigating the viral video we came to know that 2 or 3 more persons were involved in it. But Prateek Tiwari was the main accused who was beating Rajeev with a rod. We have already arrested two people regarding this case. A search operation is going on for others.”

We have accessed the FIR copy of the police where the names of the accused are seen as Prateek Tiwari, Samitar, and four unidentified persons.

We also ran a keyword search on Raja Dwivedi. A Bhaskar report mentioned that there was an incident in UP’s Banda district recently in which an FIR was filed against Raja Dwivedi, a sibling of a former MLA, for allegedly beating a youth to death.

But the viral video is certainly from Shahjahanpur, not Banda, which is circulated alongside false claims.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal and Vinay Pandey)