A stunning image, purportedly showing individual fibres of iris, is viral on social media with the claim that it is a close-up view of the human eye.

One such post viral on Facebook can be seen below.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the image is misleading. This is a digital artwork by a Poland-based texture artist, Eugene Filimonov.

advertisement

AFWA probe

We did a reverse image search of the image in question and found the same image and two more images shared on the official Twitter handle of Foundry, a London-based company that creates software for creative industry.

According to this Tweet, the image is a digital art created using Foundry’s tool, Nuke.

Our Hall of Fame was introduced to celebrate the amazing work created by artists using our tools. As 2019 wraps up, we highlight three winners who blew us away with their creations in Modo, Mari and Nuke. pic.twitter.com/qM7OaNljjg — TheFoundryTeam (@TheFoundryTeam) December 18, 2019

Taking a cue from this we further searched and found the same image uploaded with the caption “Realistic Eye” on ArtStation, a showcase platform for digital artists from all around the world.

The image was uploaded by Eugene Filimonov, a texture artist based in Poland. In the description, Filimonov has also mentioned that this art is a joint project with another artist, Roman Lovygin from Russia.

In the comment session, responding to a 3D artist who asked how he created the artwork, Filimonov has provided two links that show the stage-by-stage process of how he conceptualised and created the “Realistic Eye”.

The final form of the artwork as shared by Filimonov can be seen below.

The image in question is also shared by Filimonov on his Instagram and Facebook profiles.

It is hence clear that the image in question is not a close-up of the real human eye, but a digital artwork.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Netizens trip over Ronaldo’s doppelganger reading Quran in viral video

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Old video of Dilip Kumar shared as veteran actor’s last moments in hospital