Social media is all covered with news of war between Russia-Ukraine. In between the war President of Ukraine Zelensky visited the hospital to check on the wounded Ukrainian Army.

It is being claimed that the woman seen in that picture is Inna Derusova, a physician, who is claimed to be dead in the month of February.

Hence, the viral video is referred to as an old video and not a recent one.

Many users on Twitter posted the picture with similar claims. As shown beneath.

Claim: “Zelensky walked to a hospital today to visit wounded Ukrainian soldiers and award them with state honors for their sacrifices.” Umm… The woman to Zelenskyy’s left, is a physician named Inna Derusova. She was reported to have died on Feb. 26https://t.co/DZGkor3QbT pic.twitter.com/NW8pVgtzHM — Caroline Mueller (@PnutMueller) March 14, 2022

#Zelenskyy video #FAKE in which he allegedly visited a hospital with wounded soldiers of #Ukraine army today includes physician Inna Derusova who died on Feb 26 & awarded posthumously a medal by Zelenskyy. The video is from February but before her death confirmed by her relatives pic.twitter.com/8ylFq0xW8l — davie ewan macdonald (@escalatorover) March 14, 2022

Fact check:

We reversed searched the image and found out that the woman on the left is the first woman army brigadier of Ukraine Colonel Tetiana Ostashchenko.

An article about her was given in a Ukrainian multimedia platform JKRINFORM

Whereas the women she was being misunderstood was Inna Derusova, the first woman of his country for the title of ‘Hero of Ukraine’ posthumously, for displaying exemplary courage and bravery in the ongoing conflict with Russia.

Which was given to her by president zelensky.

A Facebook page too conformed her death and shared the picture of Inna Derusova, Along with a long paragraph explaining her and her achievements.

Conclusion:

As you can see in the collage both the woman are different from each. Therefore the woman seem with zelensky is Colonel Tetiana Ostashchenko and not Inna Derosova. Hence making the claims of people false.

Claim Review: Truth behind Zelensky viral video with a woman who died on Feb 26th.

Claimed by: many social media

Fact Check: fake.