Mumbai Police on Monday clarified that a policewoman who was seen feeling dizzy and taking the support of a scooter to prop herself did not test positive for COVID-19, after a video of the incident went viral on social media. BOOM contacted Mumbai Police who stated that the police constable in the viral video had tested negative and was feeling dizzy due to low blood pressure.

A 56-seconds long video shot at night showing a female cop kneeling on the street and propping herself up with the support of a scooter parked near the side of the road, has gone viral on WhatsApp and social media. A number of policemen nearby at first hesitate to approach the cop. The person recording the video falsely claims that the policewoman is suffering from COVID-19. He also states that the video has been recorded near Grant Road's RK Hotel in Mumbai.



Reports detailing how the police machinery in the city is being stretched thin have made the claim belivable. A total of 762 Mumbai Police personnel have tested positive for COIVD-19 in the city till May 22, 2020, Hindustan Times reported.

The viral clip is being shared with the caption, "MUMBAI : A Lady Police Constable, suffering from Corona, breathing problem, waiting for Ambulance near RK Hotel Grantroad Mumbai. This Video is moving around. Mumbai is in deep Trouble:"

Viral on Facebook

We searched with the same caption on Facebook and found that the video was viral with the misleading claim.





Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kirit Somaiya, in a now deleted tweet had also shared the viral clip on Twitter saying, "Lady Police suffering from Corona, breathing problem, waiting for Ambulance near RK Hotel Grantroad, Mumbai is in deep Trouble."







Mumbai Police had then quote tweeted Somaiya replying that the video was taken on May 16, 2020, and is not related COVID-19 saying as the lady constable did not test positive.

We appreciate your concern sir, but this is an old video from 16.05.2020 and is not related to COVID-19. The lady corona warrior is absolutely healthy & she never tested positive for COVID-19. We request all citizens to not circulate unverified content. https://t.co/fS5Xdb2Sis — Mumbai Police (@MumbaiPolice) May 24, 2020





Cop Tested Negative For COVID-19: Mumbai Police

BOOM contacted Mumbai Police Spokesperson, DCP Pranay Ashok, who sent us a statement on the incident which stated that the female constable in the viral video has tested negative for COVID-19 and the reason for her feeling dizzy was because of low blood pressure.

"This video is from May 16, 2020, and was taken at 9.00 pm. The female constable had an argument with her parents at home, as a result of which she had low blood pressure," read the statement

"She was taken to Reliance Hospital and examined by a doctor after which she was later released and sent home. The female police constable has been found Corona negative," further read the statement.

Somaiya later tweeted wishing the cop good health, and also quote tweeted a couple of questions at the Mumbai Police, asking why no other constables had helped her out, and why the ambulance reached after a long time.

Understood that Mumbai Police clarifies, the Video is real. the lady Police was subsequently taken to hospital and found corona negative. It seems that her colleagues remained away from her, scaring she have corona. We wish the lady police good health.@BJP4Maharashtra — Kirit Somaiya (@KiritSomaiya) May 24, 2020





your response accept the incident/video is true/real.lady constable was suffering breathing problem on road, no other constables goes to help her, ambulances reached after long time Is it not horrible? Why she was lying helpless on road? when u come to know about Negative Report? https://t.co/FPPMJaY9KF — Kirit Somaiya (@KiritSomaiya) May 25, 2020





Maharashtra has reported 50231 positive COVID- 19 cases and 1635 deaths while writing this article. Follow BOOM's LIVE blog for recent updates:Coronavirus LIVE Update: India's Cases Rise To ‭‭1,38,845; 4,021 Dead