Amid the escalating political crisis in Maharashtra, a video of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been circulating on social media with the claim that the CM called Mughal emperor Aurangzeb a martyr.

In the 30-second-long video, Thackeray was heard saying that while Aurangzeb was Muslim, he fought and died for “our country” and hence, we should be proud of him. “That’s what my Hindutva has taught me, it has not taught me to discriminate based on religion,” he added.

advertisement

One such post can be seen below.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the video was clipped short to give it a false spin. Thackeray was talking about a Kashmiri soldier named Aurangzeb who was murdered in 2018, not the Mughal emperor.

AFWA probe

In the video in question, we noticed the TV9 Marathi logo. Subsequently, we searched for the video on TV9 Marathi’s YouTube channel.

On June 8, 2022, the channel uploaded a longer version of the video with the Marathi caption: “Aurangzeb became a martyr for the country! : Uddhav Thackeray”

The clip that’s now viral starts at the mark of one minute 47 seconds in this video. The longer version of the video makes it clear that Thackeray was not referring to the Mughal emperor, rather he was talking about a Kashmiri soldier with the same name.

We also found multiple media reports about this speech that was made by Thackeray at a public meeting in Aurangabad on June 8 where he targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party for propagating their idea of Hindutva.

During his speech, Thackeray referred to the Kashmiri soldiers while commenting on the issue of renaming Aurangabad. While saying he had not forgotten Shiv Sena's long-standing demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar, Thackeray said that not all people named Aurangzeb were the same. He cited the Kashmiri soldier in this context.

Aurangzeb, who was posted to the 44 Rashtriya Rifles camp at Shadimarg in Shopian, was kidnapped by militants after he left the camp to go back home for Eid on June 14, 2018. His body was found in Pulwama hours after the abduction. Fifteen bullet wounds were reportedly found on the soldier's body.

It is hence clear that the video in circulation has been clipped to give it a false spin. In the original video, the Maharashtra CM was referring to an Indian soldier named Aurangzeb, and not the Mughal emperor.