A disturbing video of a mob running aggressively on a street and pelting stones has gone viral on social media with the claim that this happened in Jaipur, Rajasthan. Those throwing stones can be seen chanting the ‘Allah hu Akbar’ slogan through the video.

A Facebook user posted this video with the caption, “We did not even realize and Rajasthan became Kashmir. This is what happened in Jaipur yesterday. Now it’s for you to decide when you will be hit by it.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is neither recent nor from Rajasthan. This video is at least four years old and is from the Lal Chowk area of Anantnag, Jammu and Kashmir.

AFWA probe

We found that many social media users had shared this video in September 2017 with the same claim. Clearly, this video is not related to any recent incident.

Geolocating the video

A minute and 17 seconds into the video, hoardings of two adjacent shops can be seen which read ‘Western Hosiery’ and ‘Sathoo Furnishing’. Using a keyword search, we found that these shops are located in the Lal Chowk locality of Anantnag in Jammu and Kashmir. We also found an image of the ‘Western Hosiery’ shop hoarding on its Facebook page. On comparing the photo with the video’s screengrab, the similarities between them can be clearly seen.

At 25 seconds in the video, the hoarding of another shop is partially seen with the word ‘Vasco’ written on it. We found that this is from a footwear shop ‘Vasco Pasco', again located in the Lal Chowk area of Anantnag. We found an image of this shop on the ‘Justdial’ website in which the store’s hoarding can be seen clearly.

The owner of the footwear outlet ‘Vasco Pasco’ Mudassir Haroo confirmed to us that the hoarding of his shop is indeed seen in the viral video. He added, “This is definitely an old video. I can say this because my shop was renovated and the hoarding design was changed a few years back. The hoarding seen in the video is the old one which was there before the renovation.” Haroo sent us the latest picture of the hoarding of his shop which has changed now.

Eyewitness accounts

Towards the end of the video, the mob can be seen rushing towards the ‘Western Hosiery’ and ‘Sathoo Furnishing’ shops. A few among them are seen angrily grabbing a man purportedly wearing a police uniform.

We were able to speak to a person who was present when this incident happened. Khalid Sathoo is the owner of the ‘Western Hosiery’ shop and also visible in the video.

advertisement

Khalid said, “I was present in my shop when this whole thing happened. I remember on that day; some people were pelting stones towards the police forces. While this was going on, a police officer sought shelter in my shop and I tried to help him. When the stone pelters noticed this, they came running towards my shop to get hold of him.”

Khalid also told us that the ‘Sathoo Furnishing’ shop located adjacent to his shop ‘Western Hosiery’ belongs to his uncle.

Recently, some people had attacked a police team in Jaipur with bricks following which a case was registered against three people.

In conclusion, an old stone-pelting video from Anantnag is being falsely shared as that from Jaipur, Rajasthan.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Rakesh Tikait’s ‘threat’ to media houses is not what it seems

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Is Yohani of ‘Manike Mage Hithe’ fame the new cultural envoy between India, SL?