A video is going viral on social media extensively with the claim that Rajasthan Police draped Chadar at the Dargah of Hazrat Khwaja Garib Nawaz in Ajmer during the lockdown. While during this time all the temples were closed on the orders of the state government.

While sharing the video, a user wrote that the Rajasthan Police, who had stopped worshiping in the temple built in the police station as per the orders of the Rajasthan government,are now offering chadars at dargah.

Many other users also shared this video with similar claims.

Fact Check:

On checking the viral video, we found the video in two parts. To test the first part, convert the video into several key frames with the help of the Inside tool. On reverse-searching images of individual key frames, we found a post on the Facebook page of Ajmer Police. In which the pictures related to the video have been posted. It was also told that to prevent the spread of coronavirus, an awareness rally was taken out on behalf of Ajmer Police. At the same time, Ajmer Dargah Committee also confirmed that the Dargah was closed during the lockdown.

In which the pictures related to the video have been posted. It was also told that to prevent the spread of corona virus, an awareness rally was taken out on behalf of Ajmer Police. At the same time, Ajmer Dargah Committee also confirmed that the Dargah was closed during the lockdown.

At the same time, in the second part of the video, some Burkanshin women are also shown along with the policemen inside the dargah. Watching the video carefully, it appears that no one is wearing a mask during this time. In such a situation, it is clear that the second part of the video is before the lockdown.

Apart from this, if there is a question of presenting Chadar at the Dargah of Rajasthan Police, then every year at the end of year Chadar is draped by the district administration as Shukran at the Dargah. In which the policemen including top officials are also involved.

Conclusion:

Hence the claim made with the viral video is fake and misleading.

Claim Review : Rajasthan Police closed temples and climbed chadar during lockdown in Ajmer Sharif

Claimed by: Facebook user.

Fact Check: Misleading