Is this man in the picture wearing kilos of gold ornaments the grandson of DMK leader MK Stalin?

The claim

Facebook user Tushar Natrajan posted the picture of a young man sporting several flashy gold chains and other ornaments on Facebook page 'New India'.

He wrote in Tamil about the Dravidian pride and claimed that the man in the photograph is Stalin’s grandson.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The post on Facebook page New India’ has been shared more than 400 times at the last count.

The truth

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The man in the viral picture with gold ornaments is not Tamil politician MK Stalin’s grandson. He is Harshvardhan Pandharkar, known as the youngest golden boy from Pune in Maharashtra.

The golden boy of Pune

We found Instagram profile of Pandharkar by using reverse image search on the viral picture. Pandharkar has more than 52,000 followers on Instagram.

Among several other pictures of him sporting gold ornaments, we found the same picture in a different frame along with bouncers and the same black SUV parked behind him.

Pandharkar is fond of gold ornaments. There are many pictures and videos of him available on the Internet.

Who is Stalin's grandson

There are not many news reports or photographs available on Stalin’s grandson. According to Tamil entertainment website News Bugz, Inbanithi is the son of actor-turned-politician.

Inbanithi is a son of actor turned politician Udhayanidhi Stalin and grand son of DMK leader, M. K. Stalin. Moreover he is the great grandson of Late CM M. Karunanidhi. His mother Kiruthiga Udhayanidhi is one of the famous directors in Tamil Film Industry. She has directed movies like Vanakkam Chennai and Kaali. Inbanithi Biography []

Udhayanidhi Stalin and grandson of MK Stalin. He is the great-grandson of late Tamil Nadu chief minister M Karunanidhi.

The photograph of MK Stalin’s son and grandson together can be seen here.

The conclusion

The picture of the man with gold ornaments on Facebook page New India’ is not of politician MK Stalin’s grandson. He is Harshvardhan Pandharkar, known as the golden boy’ of Pune because of his obsession for gold ornaments.