In the months leading up to the Presidential elections, the United States witnessed massive ‘Black Lives Matter’ demonstrations after an African-American man was choked to death during an arrest by a white police officer. Several other names of victims of race violence also came up as protesters marched through US cities seeking justice.

Now, after Joe Biden won the nerve-wracking polls, a picture of him kneeling before a child is going viral with the claim that the US President-elect apologised to the daughter of a “black American who was publicly murdered by a white police officer”.

advertisement

The caption in Tamil along with the picture translates to, “The public murder of a black American by the white police during the Trump administration caused a great deal of controversy not only in the United States but throughout the world. The new President of the United States apologises to the girl, the daughter of the dead black man.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the kid is the son of an apparel shop owner in Detroit, Michigan. The picture was taken when Biden stopped by the store during his election campaign. The owner, Clement Brown Jr, confirmed to us that none of his family members were killed by the police.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using reverse search, we found the image was uploaded on the verified Instagram handle of Joe Biden on September 15. Though he marked the location as Detroit, there is no mention of the identity of the child in front of him.

We also found the same image posted on Twitter by Corinne Perkins, the North America editor for Reuters Pictures. According to her, the child in the picture is CJ Brown, and the image was captured when Biden made a brief visit to ‘Three Thirteen’, a clothing store in Detroit.

The White House correspondent of “ABC News”, Karen Travers shared a similar picture of Biden. We also found similar photos of the US President-elect with the same boy on “Getty Images”. All of them had similar image description.

We also found similar images of Biden with the boy in “The Telegraph”, “Panama City News Herald” and “Victoria Advocate”, confirming the child’s identity as CJ Brown, the son of an apparel shop owner in Detroit. None of these reports said the boy’s father was the victim of racially-motivated attacks by a white police officer.

For better clarity, we reached out to Clement Brown Jr himself, the owner of the apparel shop ‘Three Thirteen’.Clement confirmed to AFWA through Instagram that CJ Brown is his son and the viral claim is false.

advertisement

“The boy in the image is my son CJ Brown. His actual name is Christopher Jr Brown. The image was clicked when the President-elect visited our shop during the election campaign. Biden was just greeting my son. My father Clement Brown was also with us that day. None from our family was killed in police custody,” Clement told AFWA.

On his Instagram handle, Clement has also shared images of him with Biden and CJ Brown. . A video of Biden kneeling to greet the boy and later checking out t-shirts at the store can be seen here.

Therefore, it is clear that the picture in circulation does not show Biden apologising to a victim of race crime. The picture was taken during one of his election campaigns in Detroit, Michigan.