A few days back, a video showing the hardships of an aged couple running an eatery in South Delhi went viral on social media. The video prompted an outpour of support for the couple.

Another heart-wrenching video where a man is seen helplessly weeping as his rickshaw gets seized as part of an eviction drive is viral on social media with the claim that the incident is from India.

advertisement

Several Indian social media handles have shared the video with the caption, “The Law of this country is only for poor people..!” They have also used hashtags such as #India, #NarendraModi, #BJP and #ArvindKejriwal.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The incident is from Bangladesh and not India. The man was weeping because his rickshaw was seized by Dhaka civic officials.

Some have posted the video in reply to tweets by Indian leaders. One such tweet to Rahul Gandhi can be seen here. Other similar posts on social media can be seen here and here. The archived versions can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

We noticed that some text superimposed on the video is in Bangla. A few shops behind also have their names in Bangla. Most importantly, the microphone held in front of the man has the logo of “Jamuna TV”, a Bangladesh-based news channel.

Taking clues from this, we did a reverse search of key frames of the video with appropriate keywords and found that the incident is from Dhaka in Bangladesh. The man seen crying in the video is Fazlur Rahman whose rickshaw was seized during an eviction drive by Dhaka South City Corporation on October 5.

We found the image of the same man in an article by “Dhaka Tribune” published on October 8. The title of the article reads, “Rickshaw puller turns entrepreneur with help from Shwapno”.

According to the article, Fazlur had bought a battery-powered rickshaw with a loan of 80,000 Bangladeshi taka after having lost his previous job amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The article says that on October 5, Dhaka South City Corporation launched an operation to evict battery-powered rickshaws, and Fazlur’s only rickshaw was also seized as part of this drive in Jigatala area of the city.

The “Dhaka Tribune” also says how Fazlur’s emotional video went viral and an online grocery delivery service called “Shwapno” came forward to help him by purchasing two rickshaws for him.

Several news websites such as “News18”, “Times Now”, “Asianet News Bangla” and “The Business Standard Bangla” covered the incident on October 9, confirming that it is from Dhaka.

advertisement

According to the “News18” report, the video was originally posted by a Facebook user from Bangladesh, Sakib Rahman, which went viral and garnered massive public attention. Many individuals and groups then came forward to help those affected by the eviction drive.

Ahsan Bhuiyan, a Facebook user from Dhaka, also uploaded photos of Fazlur on his Facebook account, saying he had ordered rickshaws for him and two other drivers who had lost their rickshaws during the eviction.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral video of a man breaking down as his rickshaw was seized by civic officials is not from India but Dhaka in Bangladesh.