Has the central government imposed articles 256 and 257 of the Indian Constitution on West Bengal due to the post-poll violence?

A Facebook post claims that the Union government has clipped Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's wings by imposing these articles, which means that the Centre will now have direct control over the state's senior officials.

Bengal's ruling Trinamool Congress is at loggerheads with BJP over widespread violence since the declaration of election results. BJP has alleged that Trinamool goons have killed several of its party workers, looted their houses and properties, and vandalised party offices.

advertisement

The caption in Hindi along with the Facebook post says since articles 256 and 257 were imposed in Bengal, the Centre can now issue direct orders to the chief secretary and state DGP, which they are compelled to carry out. If they disobey these orders, then with the Governor's recommendation, the President can impose Article 356 and the state government will have to step down.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found no such order regarding imposition of articles 256 and 257 in the state. Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had recently summoned both the chief secretary and DGP and expressed displeasure over not being updated on the law and order situation regarding post-poll violence.

However, a five-judge special bench of Calcutta high court expressed satisfaction over steps taken by the newly-formed Mamata Banerjee government to restore normality.

The archived version of the post is saved here.

What AFWA found

Dhankhar has been critical of the way the state government is handling the post-poll scenario in the state.

As several deaths were reported from various places, the Governor on May 8 summoned the chief secretary and DGP to apprise him of the situation. Dhankhar, however, expressed displeasure and tweeted that he was "disgusted" as "Unfortunately both came without any paper or reports sought".

Chief Secretary @MamataOfficial and DGP @WBPolice called on me at Raj Bhawan at 6 PM today.



Unfortunately both came without any paper or reports sought. Directed them to send the same without delay. In a sense disgusted with such stance. Hope there is appropriate response now. pic.twitter.com/RJUnCZp1VY — Governor West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankhar (@jdhankhar1) May 8, 2021

On the other hand, as reported by news websites, a five-judge special bench of Calcutta high court recently appreciated the steps taken by the state government to bring back normalcy.

The bench rejected the suggestion of the additional solicitor general, representing the Centre, to set up a special investigation team to probe the post-poll violence.

There are reports that a petition was filed on May 4 in the Supreme Court seeking imposition of President's rule and deployment of central forces in Bengal following widespread violence over the election results. But there is no such report confirming that the Centre has imposed articles 256 and 257 in Bengal.

What are articles 256 and 257?

advertisement

As far as legality is concerned, Article 256 "imposes a general obligation on states to so exercise their executive power as to ensure compliance with the laws made by Parliament and the executive power of the Centre extends to the giving of such directions to a state as may appear to the Centre to be necessary for the purpose."

Article 257(1) provides that "the executive power of the state is to be so exercised as not to impede or prejudice the exercise of the Centre's executive power and the Centre can give such directions to a state as may appear to the central government to be necessary for that purpose."

Both these articles make the state executive subservient to the Union.