Amid rising clamour for implementation of the Uniform Civil Code, a signboard with an anti-Sharia message, allegedly by the Indian Army, is circulating on social media. The text on the signboard reads, “You are entering a Sharia-free zone. Please set your watches forward 1,400 years”.

Some netizens claim the board was spotted on the India-Pakistan border.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the text on the board is morphed. The original signboard is from the United States-Mexico border, and it warns against taking arms into Mexico.

AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we found the original version of the image in question in a photo essay by American journalist Molly O’Toole, published in 2010.

In the original image, the text in English and Spanish on the signboard reads, “Weapons and ammunition illegal in Mexico”. The picture description says, “A sign at the border in San Luis warns against bringing arms into Mexico. U.S. Attorney Dennis Burke says that arms trafficking to Mexico is a major problem.”

According to the essay, the image was among several pictures clicked by Molly O’Toole on an 852-mile, 72-hour trip, across the Southwest border, from San Diego, California, to Arizona and back.

A comparison between the viral and original pictures can be seen below.

We also found images of similar boards against firearm trafficking to Mexico on the US-Mexico border.

According to a report by the Center for American Progress, United States is the primary source of weapons used in crimes in Mexico and Canada. Another report by the US Government Accountability Office says 70 percent guns seized in Mexico have US origin.

We further found that the image in question has been circulating over the years in different sites with different text superimposed on it. The same picture was earlier circulated as from the US border.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral image is morphed and not an Indian Army signboard.