Many a time, we come across inspiring stories of how single moms and dads have conquered their parenting journeys. Now, an adorable picture collage of a man carrying a baby on his chest while teaching is viral on social media with the claim that he is a college professor who lost his wife during childbirth. The claim says he is looking after the baby and taking classes at the same time.

advertisement

The verified Twitter handle of Awanish Sharan, a 2009 batch IAS officer of Chhattisgarh cadre, posted the collage with the caption, “His wife passed away during Childbirth. But he has taken responsibility for taking the child and college classes together. The real life Hero.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. These are 2016 images of a Mexican professor carrying the baby of one of his students so that she could take notes without interruption.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse image search, we found the same pictures in a 2016 report by “CNN Spanish”.

According to the report, the man in the pictures is Moisés Reyes Sandoval, a law professor at the Inter-American University for Development in Acapulco, Mexico. The report says that the baby he’s carrying is of his 22-year-old student, Yalena Salas, who despite having multiple responsibilities in life, decided to pursue studies.

According to what the professor told CNN, the baby began crying when he started dictating a series of definitions on international law, making it difficult for the mother to handle the baby and attend class. That is when the professor took the baby so the mother could take notes without interruption.

Sharing the moment, Sandoval on July 6, 2016, had also posted one of the viral pictures on his personal Facebook account.

The caption of the post in Spanish translates to, “I have a student, who has not dropped out of school despite her different roles, so I decided to carry her son, without interrupting the class to take notes.”

Sandoval’s kind gesture towards a young mother determined to study against all odds was also reported by the local media in 2016.

Sandoval’s wife is very much alive and they have a son together. On June 21, 2020, his wife Ariana Ibarra shared a picture of Sandoval and their child and wrote a loving post to wish him on Father’s Day. Sandoval’s present Facebook bio reads, “Local Deputy of the 7th District of Acapulco, Vice President of the Guerrero Congress, Lawyer.”

Hence, it is clear that the viral pictures are of a professor in Mexico who was carrying the child of one of his students so that she could take notes without interruption.