Is one of the most downloaded games on Google Play Store a tribute to a boy who died while skating on railway tracks? We are talking about “Subway Surfers”, wherein players take the role of young graffiti artists who, upon being caught, run through railway tracks to escape the police. As they run, they collect gold coins and other items, while dodging trains and other objects.

advertisement

On social media, a tragic story regarding the origin of the game is being circulated. It is being said that the creator of “Subway Surfers” had made the game in memory of his son who had died while skating down the railway tracks.

The post is viral on Facebook and Twitter. The archived version can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be fictitious.

While trying to figure out how this claim could have started, we came across a deleted tweet made on July 29 by a Twitter handle called “@adorebestlads”. This handle seems to be one of the first to make the viral claim.

On July 30, this user apologised for posting unverified content, but by then, it had already been picked up by a large number of social media accounts. SYBO Games, the co-founder of “Subway Surfers”, had said in a reply to “@adorebestlads” that it had created the game as a mark of respect to street culture and diversity.

We created Subway Surfers to pay homage to street culture and diversity. We feel that the game allows for creativity and fun in a safe and entertaining environment. Thanks for running with us! — SYBO (@sybogames) July 30, 2020

We found a YouTube video, wherein SYBO Games CEO Mathias Gredal Norvig himself narrates the story behind the creation of “Subway Surfers”.

He says, “The influences for the game were a mix of passion, street culture, fashion, animation, music, graffiti, skateboarding.” Nowhere does he mention about the tragic story being told in the claim.

According to “dailymotion.com”, the two founders of SYBO Games, Sylvester Rishoj Jensen and Bodie Jahn-Mulliner, had won the first prize for the ‘best animation movie’ following which they created the game in 2012.