Amid reports of ceasefire violations by Pakistan, a post is going viral on social media claiming that Indian forces have occupied a village in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) and inflicted heavy casualties on Pakistan army and terror groups. The picture, along with the viral claim, shows a town with fire and smoke raging in the distance.



The claim in Hindi translates to, "This is confirmed news. Indian forces have entered PoK and captured Karen village. Dozens of Pak commandos, Jaish and Lashkar commandos have been blown up along with the Pak brigade headquarter. Heavy bombardment on in Neelam Valley. Traffic halted on CPEC. Indian Army can make an official announcement any time."



advertisement





India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The viral photo is from Syria, and not PoK.



Facebook user "Sunny Seth" posted the misleading claim in a group called "WE SUPPORT NARENDRA MODI". Till the filing of this story, it was liked by more than 3,000 users and shared over 200 times. The archived version can be seen here.



The claim is also viral on Twitter.







AFWA PROBE

To verify the claim, we reverse-searched the viral photo and found an article published by "MIDDLE EAST MONITOR" on August 7, 2017. The article carries the same picture as seen in the viral post.

According to the article, the Syrian Army was carrying out shelling and airstrikes on opposition-held enclaves in the country's capital Damascus.

CEASEFIRE VIOLATIONS AND RESPONSE

Pakistan has again been violating ceasefires, inviting retaliatory strikes by the Indian forces. We found an article published by "Amar Ujala" on December 21, 2019, which says that the Indian Army denied entering PoK and capturing a village. But the Indian Army did destroy many terror camps in PoK's Neelam Valley.

Also, we did not find any official statement or media report which claims that the Indian Army entered PoK, captured a village and killed Pakistani, Jaish and Lashkar commandos.

Hence, it is clear that the viral claim is misleading. The photo accompanying the viral post is from Syria and not PoK. And though the Indian Army destroyed many terror camps across the border in response to ceasefire violations, it did not capture any village in PoK as claimed in the viral post.