The torrential rains, heaviest in 1,000 years of China’s history, have been wreaking havoc in the country for past few days and has killed more than 50 people.

A video is viral on social media claiming that helicopters, airplanes, and several automobiles have swept away by flood water in China.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. This video is the footage of the tsunami that hit Japan in 2011.

AFWA probe

With the help of a reverse search of the keyframes of the video, we found the same video was published by the Wall Street Journal April 29, 2011. The video was sourced from news agency Reuters.

According to this report the video was released by the Japan Coastal Guard after the tsunami hit Sendai airport and port towns across northern Japan on March 11, 2011.

Screenshots from the video in question were also published by The Atlantic on May 9, 2011, in a reportage of the tsunami.

The Japan earthquake and tsunami of 2011 was a severe natural disaster that occurred in north-eastern Japan. What began as a powerful earthquake off the north-eastern coast of Honshu, Japan’s main island, later initiated a series of huge tsunami waves that devastated many coastal areas of the country.

The tsunami also triggered a major nuclear accident at Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Okuma, Fukushima. Thousands died, many went missing, houses, automobiles and farmlands were inundated by swirling waters in the Japan disaster.

China floods 2021

China’s central Henan province is currently witnessing the country’s heaviest rainfall in 1,000 years.

According to the state-run media reports around 1.24 million people were affected by the floods and as many as 1,60,000 were evacuated. Subways, streets, hotels, and a large number of buildings were waterlogged, bringing the city’s public transport to a standstill.

A drone video by BBC shows the scale of flood damage in China.

It is hence clear that the video in question is of the tsunami in Japan and not related to the ongoing floods in China.