Bulldozers have become somewhat synonymous with strongman chief ministers following a trend of demolition drives against alleged criminals. Popularised by Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, demolishing homes and shops of those accused of crimes has now become the modus operandi of other Bharatiya Janata Party CMs.

While this method has come under criticism from civil society and opposition leaders, veteran Congress party leader Salman Khurshid’s attempt to call out the UP’s CM for this was less than successful. Sharing a series of photos of demolished buildings, Khurshid tweeted, “Not Ukraine, these are photos of Unnao and Farrukhabad of Buldozerland”.

advertisement

Khurshid’s tweet was retweeted by many, including Congress leader Alka Lamba. Others tweeted the photos as well, some criticising, and some praising the Yogi Adityanath government.

The archived versions of such posts can be seen here, and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that three out of the four images shared by Khurshid are from former CM Akhilesh Yadav’s regime.

Old pics recycled

A reverse search of the first three photos led us to similar images in an Amar Ujala report from May 2016. In 2016, Akhilesh Yadav was the Chief Minister of UP. Yogi Adityanath came to power in September 2017.

As per the Amar Ujala reports, these photos were from a demolition drive in Loha Mandi (iron market) and Bartan Bazar (utensils market), located between Ataullah Nala and Chhota Chauraha in Unnao. The district administration demolished around 85 supposedly illegal buildings in the area.

We were unable to find a source for the fourth photo tweeted by Khurshid.

What did Khurshid say?

India Today contacted Khurshid and asked the veteran Congress leader about the photos. He said, “The images were shared with me by the locals of Farrukhabad where demolition is happening. At the time of tweeting the post, I was not aware the first three images were old.”

Khurshid claimed that the fourth photo was from Farrukhabad. India Today has reached out to the local who shared the fourth photo with Khurshid. This story will be updated as and when we receive a response.

As per reports, for the last month and a half, a demolition drive has been on in Farrukhabad. Authorities have demolished more than a dozen allegedly illegal buildings worth crores of rupees.

However, it is clear that three of the four photos shared by Khurshid are indeed from 2016 and not related to the Yogi Adityanath government.

Update: After getting in touch with a local, India Today was able to ascertain that the fourth photo shared by Khurshid was current. The photo showed a demolished house on Narkasa road in Kadrigate, Farrukhabad.