Spread the truth:

Ram Mandir in Ayodhya still is a burning issue since three decades. The issue of the temple has once again come in the limelight of people, for the wrong reasons. Since a week, a few viral images have plagued the Facebook and WhatsApp feeds of many Indians. A gutter under construction was shown to have bricks on which ‘Shri Ram’ is written, claimed to be in the city of Ayodhya. This has angered many people who have forwarded the images forward without verifying them

A Facebook user by the name of Sunita Rawat put this post up which has been shared on Facebook 384 times

Text:

“सवाल दो रूपये किलो आस्था का है,

जो ईंटें राम-मंदिर के नाम पर जमा की गई थीं, वो अब योगी सरकार के भक्त ठेकेदार अयोध्या में नाली बनाने में लगा रहे हैं।

कुछ कहेंगे आस्था वाले?

धार्मिक आस्था से कमाई और उगाही करना कोई भाजपा से सीखे।”

Translated: “Question is of Two Rupee worth faith. The bricks collected in the name of making Ram Temple, is being used by Contractors of Yogi government for making gutters. Will the people who have faith, speak ? One should learn hypocrisy from BJP”

A Twitter handle with name “Mewat Congress” with Congress Party symbol in it’s DP also tweeted with text

Truth:

The photos are real, but the context and the location are wrong. The gutter in question was constructed in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur town, and none of the bricks sent for the Ram Mandir have been used for constructing the gutter. Manoj Mishra, a local journalist from Shahjahanpur uploaded two posts on Facebook regarding the truth of the issue:

One first post he wrote

“शाहजहांपुर नगर निगम करवा रहा है अधो मानक नाली निर्माण श्रीराम मारका ईटों का प्रयोग कर बनाई जा रही है गंदी नालियां। गौरतलब हो की शाहजहांपुर स्टेशन रोड जलाल नगर गली में कांट्रेक्शन द्वारा नाली का निर्माण कराया जा रहा है जिसमें मानक के अनुरूप सीमेंट ब अन्य सामग्री का प्रयोग नहीं किया जा रहा है तो वहीं दूसरी ओर भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार जो जय श्री राम के नाम पर जानी जाने वाली पार्टी है तो उसी की सरकार में नाली में श्रीराम मारका ईट का प्रयोग किया जा रहा है नाली में तमाम तरीका की गंदगी बहकर जाएगी श्री राम का नाम हिंदू धर्म के लिए बहुत पूजनीय एवं पवित्र है श्री राम मार्का ईट का प्रयोग करके कहीं ना कहीं पर हिंदू धर्म की आस्था से नगर निगम के कंट्रक्शन ठेकेदार खिलवाड़ करते नजर आ रहे हैं इस बाबत जब अपर नगर आयुक्त नगर निगम शाहजहांपुर से बात की गई तो उन्होंने साफ लफ्जो में कुछ भी कहने से इंकार कर दिया the Indian opinion Samachar Patra ke liye Shahjahanpur se Manoj Mishra ki report” (Shahjahanpur Nagar Nigam has given out a contract for building a gutter in Station Road’s Jalal Nagar area. It is not fair that a government which is mobilising a movemt on Lord Ram has allowed the construction of a gutter with Shri Ram written on the bricks used. No comments have come in from the Nagar Nigam as well.)

On his second post, he also posted a video taking feedback as what people think about using a brick with “Shri Ram” writing on it for making a gutter.

“शाहजहांपुर इलाहाबाद जाकर सीएम योगी ने इलाहाबाद का नाम बदलकर प्रयागराज रखा तो वहीं 30 दिसम्बर को शाहजहांपुर में आकर अगर श्री राम मार्का ईट का नाम बदलकर कुछ दूसरा रख देते तो भगवान श्री राम का नाम दोबारा भविष्य में कभी नालियों या किसी और गंदी जगह पर प्रयोग नहीं होता हम आपको बता दें कि शाहजहांपुर नगर निगम में कंट्रक्शन कंपनी द्वारा स्टेशन रोड पर एक गली में नाली निर्माण में श्रीराम मार्का ईट का प्रयोग किया जा रहा है जिसकी खबर हम प्रकाशित भी कर चुके हैं लेकिन अभी तक शासन व प्रशासन द्वारा कोई सा ज्ञान नहीं लिया गया है the Indian opinion Samachar Patra ke liye Shahjahanpur se Manoj Mishra ki report” (On the 30th of December, the construction of this gutter in Shahjahanpur has hurt a lot of sentiments of people from the Hindu community.)

A bystander, interviewed by Mr. Mishra said that the gutter was being built with Shri Ram brand bricks, and said that the owner of the brick kiln was at fault for engraving the name ‘Shri Ram’ on the bricks. Initially, this person was confused because he said that it was a good thing (since a gutter is being built). Mr. Mishra also asks him whether the action was wrong for these bricks to be used, to which the bystander agreed to.

SMHoaxSlayer contacted him and received the following reply

About the bricks being there, there are many brick kilns around India which engrave Shri Ram on their bricks. Here is an example of one such brick kiln in Neemrana in Rajasthan’s Alwar district. SMHoaxSlayer talked to one of such owner of the Brick kiln, and he replied, this has been going on for ages, it’s a brand/name of the company.

Moreover, bricks and stones have been sent to Ayodhya for the Ram Mandir since 1989, and have not left the proposed land for the Ram Mandir since then.

However, many people are very sad about this whole incident, and are demanding that bricks with Shri Ram written on them are not used for construction of gutters

More Fakes

.

A FB post has gone viral in which pics show bricks that were made with the intent to build Ram Mandir being used instead for making 'nalis'(gutters)in some area of UP.If this is true,Yogi govt is truly hollow.I apologize for even putting up these pictures😔https://t.co/tjKPsHWC3u pic.twitter.com/5szqIW5ZP7 — Zainab Sikander (@zainabsikander) January 7, 2019

@ndtv Is it true

सवाल दो रूपये किलो आस्था का है, जो ईंटें राम-मंदिर के नाम पर जमा की गई थीं, वो अब योगी सरकार के भक्त ठेकेदार अयोध्या में नाली बनाने में लगा रहे हैं। कुछ कहेंगे आस्था वाले?

धार्मिक आस्था से कमाई और उगाही करना कोई भाजपा से सीखे। 👇👇👇👇👇 pic.twitter.com/qCKXF3z36D — Sharad Patil (@sharadpatil2907) January 7, 2019

सवाल दो रूपये किलो आस्था का है, जो ईंटें राम-मंदिर के नाम पर जमा की गई थीं, वो अब योगी सरकार के भक्त ठेकेदार अयोध्या में नाली बनाने में लगा रहे हैं। कुछ कहेंगे आस्था वाले?

धार्मिक आस्था से कमाई और उगाही करना कोई भाजपा से सीखे। pic.twitter.com/ts26jXgwcj — Dilsher Chaudhary (@dilsher_chauhan) January 7, 2019

सवाल दो रूपये किलो आस्था का है,

जो ईंटें राम-मंदिर के नाम पर जमा की गई थीं, वो अब योगी सरकार के भक्त ठेकेदार अयोध्या में नाली बनाने में लगा रहे हैं

हालांकि हर ईंट पर जनता ने बड़े प्यार से श्रीराम लिखा था ..

क्या इतनी कमज़ोर आस्था है कि इंतेज़ार नही कर सकते थे… pic.twitter.com/QTKEn80Wzx — Aap ka shubham #RYP (@Bjp420_) January 5, 2019

Mohit Kumar Yadav, a Student Wing member of the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur has also shared this fake post.

SURPRISING!

The Facebook profile of Sunita Rawat is fake. With 4963 friends, the Display Picture and the Cover photo are actually of Malayalam Actress Rajisha Vijayan.

The Congress Committee of Haryana’s Mewat (Nuh) district has also shared this fake post. Surprisingly, the link which led us to this post was supposed to lead us to Sunita Rawat’s profile. This post was first shared from her Twitter and Facebook profiles on 4th January

A Google Reverse Image Search gave us the results

Moreover, the quotes given on the Facebook and Twitter Profile for the post are exactly the same, apart from the date of upload.

Related