"Gujarat mein BJP karyakarta gau maas ke sath pakde gaye, danga karwane ki koshish vifal" (BJP worker caught with cow meat in Gujarat, attempts to incite riots failed)!

These are the claims made in a video which is being circulated like wildfire on social media. The video shows a man sitting on a road surrounded by a few people with flesh-like material lying around him.

advertisement

In the video, a red band going over the video reads "BJP leader with cow meat", "Gujarat BJP Exposed: BJP Car Caught Transporting Cow Meat".

Archived version of the video can be seen here

India Today Fact Check found that this video is misleading as two separate incidents have been shown in the video to create a fake narrative.

The video is being shared on social media since October 2018. At the time of publishing of this story, the video had already been shared 35,000 times from a Facebook account in the name of Shakshi Sharma.

The 54-second video has a voiceover in a male voice. The man appears to be addressing one "Naseem Bhai" as he informs him about the "big breaking news"

The voice claims that beef has been seized from the car of a BJP leader in Ahmedabad in Gujarat. Person asked to share the video as much as possible because the local media is hiding the incident.

During the voiceover a still picture runs on the screen which shows a man in the blue shirt sitting on a road , surrounded by a group of people. Flesh-like things are seen strewn on the road.

Then at the 40th second two separate pictures are seen on the screen. In the first one, two men can be seen sitting on the ground in a squatting position. They are surrounded by five men, one of whom is wearing a police uniform.

The second picture shows flesh-like material stuffed inside the dickey of a car. The number plate of the car features the "lotus symbol" and a registration number from Gujarat.

On reverse searching the video, we found that the first half of the video is of a lynching incident in Jharkhand.

In June 2017, a man named Alimuddin Ansari was lynched for allegedly carrying beef in a vehicle. His vehicle was reportedly set on fire by the mob.

This incident was widely covered by the prominent media houses at that time. None of the media reports confirms that Ansari was associated with the BJP at any point of time.

advertisement

We looked for second part of the video which shows the still picture of a car with lotus symbol and registration number of Gujarat. We found that a website called truthofgujarat.com had written about this incident in 2014 and then updated it on 2016. It had claimed that the car in the picture belonged to the BJP party in Gujarat. The website is not active now and a phone number mentioned on the site is not accessible.

We could not find a mention of this incident in any credible mainstream media outlet. India Today concludes that the video in question is misleading in nature, as the first incident shown in it didn't take place in Gujarat but in Jharkhand. Also, the man in the blue shirt was not a BJP worker.