A video of a passenger train entering a platform is widely circulating on social media with the claim that Manipur got its first train 74 years after Independence.

Major Surendra Poonia shared the video on Twitter and Facebook on July 4, along with a claim in Hindi which translates to, “The first train reached Manipur 74 years after Independence. Thank you Narendra Modi ji.”

The archived version of the posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Manipur had its first train in 2016 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off a passenger train between Jiribam in Manipur and Silchar in Assam. This video is from July 2, 2021, when an 11-km long trial run of a passenger train from Silchar to Vaingaichunpao in Manipur was successfully conducted.

Dr Jitendra Singh, Union minister of state for development of northeast, and Manipur chief minister Biren Singh had tweeted the video on July 3, calling it a “historic moment”. “Manipur makes its debut on the #RailMap of #India. Trial run of first passengers train from Silchar to Vaingaichunpao in Tamenglong was successfully conducted. #TransformingNortheast,” Singh tweeted.

MANIPUR'S FIRST BROAD GAUGE PASSENGER TRAIN

Since 1899, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram and South Assam had meter gauge railway lines. In 2014, the Northeast Frontier Railway took up the job of converting the 115-year-old meter gauge line to broad gauge line in these regions.

In 2016, PM Modi in Shillong flagged off three new trains for Mizoram, Manipur and Kamakhya in Assam. For Manipur, it was the first broad gauge passenger train that connected Jiribam to Silchar.

On May 27, 2016, All India Radio News had tweeted about the event.

First broad gauge passenger train between Jiribam,Manipur to Silchar, #AIRpics: Sanjeev Kumar pic.twitter.com/1Xlr8f6hf2 — All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) May 27, 2016

THE TRIAL RUN

AFWA spoke to the chief public relations officer (CPRO) of Northeast Frontier Railway to know about the viral video. While Jitendra Singh and Biren Singh called it the trial run of Manipur’s first passenger train, there was no mention of the event on the Twitter handles of Union railway minister Piyush Goyal, his office or the Northeast Frontier Railway.

“It was a mere trial run of a local passenger train between Vaingaichunpao and Silchar. The first broad gauge passenger train in Manipur between Jiribam and Silchar was flagged off by the PM in 2016. Later, it was extended till Vaingaichunpao,” said Subhanan Chanda, the CPRO.

advertisement

“We were just checking the track with this trial run since train services were closed for Covid and there is a plan to reintroduce the service. So there is nothing new in it,” Chanda added.

Some news websites such as “The Hindu” had said that Rajdhani Express reached Manipur on trial run, but Chanda refuted the information.

Some local news websites such as “East Mojo” initially called it the first passenger train to Vaingaichunpao, but later clarified that it was mistake.

Hence, it is clear that a simple trial run of a local train in Manipur has been hyped up with the misleading claim that this was the first passenger train to reach the northeastern state after Independence.

READ | Fact Check: DU student's photo falsely shared as Telangana girl who killed self over non-postponement of exams

READ | No, Hotel Abraj Kudai in Mecca is not the tallest hotel in the world