As campaigning for the first phase of Chhattisgarh election comes to a close on Saturday, a video is being shared on social media mocking Congress president Rahul Gandhi.

In the six-second video clip Rahul can be heard saying "Mujhe pradhan mantri bana do toh suraj uss side se uthta hai usko iss side se utha dunga"(Make me the prime minister then I will change the direction of sunrise).

advertisement

The video has been shared by Facebook pages Indian Eye and Phir Ek Baar Modi Sarkar among others.

The video clip had already been shared more than 2,200 times at the time of writing this report. The two pages which have shared this video have more than 47 lakh followers in total.

Is it possible for the Congress scion to say something so bizarre? India Today Fact Check Team found that the video was forked out from a longer speech to convey something totally out of context.

The viral video clip is from Gandhi's election rally held in Chhattisgarh's Dongargarh on November 9, 2018. In the full video uploaded by the Congress party on their official Facebook page, Rahul Gandhi can be heard saying at 8:27 "Modi ji kehte hai na ki main chand ko idhar se udhar kar dunga, mujhe pradhan mantri bana do toh jo suraj uss side se uthta hai usko iss side se utha dunga, aisi baatein main nahi karunga" (Modi says that I will change the directions of sun and the moon. I[Rahul] will not make such promises)

Rahul was, therefore, taking a dig at PM Modi rather than making the claim on his own.

This is not the first time that this type of mischievously edited video has been shared to mock the Congress president.

In June this year, it was claimed on social media that Rahul was calling himself a fool, whereas India Today found that he was in fact referring to a casual conversation with an NDA MP in the corridors of the Lok Sabha. According to Rahul, the MP told him that, "I must be the biggest fool in the country. Because I brought Modi, made him the PM, but he is so thankless that he doesn't give me a chance to speak in Lok Sabha."

Similarly, in another video which went viral in November 2017, Rahul can be heard promising machines that can convert potatoes to gold. Whereas in the complete video, Rahul was sarcastically quoting PM Modi. The edited video was shared by BJP leader Sambit Patra and many others on social media. ABP News had debunked this false claim.

READ| Fact Check: Did Rahul Gandhi go blank on a question about Kailash Mansarovar?