A 40-second dramatic video has caught the attention of many on social media which, according to claims, shows the daring feat wherein Army officers snatch a loaded AK-47 from a "terrorist" on a terrace.

The video shows the man holding a gun in his hands and talking to a policeman standing on another terrace below him. It seems the policeman is trying to keep the man busy in conversation. Suddenly, another man in plain clothes stealthily comes up from behind him and grabs his gun.

advertisement

In the ensuing fight to snatch the gun, bullets get fired from the AK-47, but he does not give up. Soon, he is joined by more policemen who pin the gunman down.

Fake video of terrorist with a gun goes viral

The video has been shared widely on Twitter and Facebook. When we searched for the claim on Facebook, a wide range of results surfaced.

The video has been shared widely on Twitter and Facebook. When we searched for the claim on Facebook, a wide range of results surfaced.

India Today Fact Check team found the claim in the video to be false. The man is not a terrorist and the people snatching the gun from him are not from the Indian Army. Our investigation revealed that the video dates back to March 2012.

The video raised suspicion after some netizens on social media questioned its authenticity. One Facebook user, Arjun Majhi FRz, commented that the video is from Poonch and the man with the AK-47 is not a terrorist.

We found that the incident was covered by several media houses, including The Times of India and India TV channel in March 2012.

We also contacted our correspondent in Srinagar who confirmed that the viral video is six years old and is from Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district. The man was identified as Tariq Khan, who was an Army jawan, and the people beating him are local policemen.

Police said Khan had suspected his wife of having an illicit relationship. He was so angered that he wanted to kill his wife. He returned home in Poonch with a rifle and started looking for her. She managed to escape, however, two of her friends fell victim to Khan's anger. He started firing indiscriminately killing both her friends and injuring two others.

Putting all facts together, we not only concluded the claim made in the video is false but that the incident is six years old.

Also read: Fact Check: Handcuffed man in this photo is not Bhagat Singh

Also read: Fact Check: Netizens switch support from one CBI officer to another