A Facebook user named ‘Mallick Jilani’ shared a post on 3 June 2019. There is a video shared in the post, in which the cops are beating some protestors. Police is beating women who look like students. The post as translated from Hindi quoted “The good days of education came in Gorakhpur yesterday on 1st June. Until yesterday, the BJP government that was being praised, today the same BJP government removed all the intoxication. Because the BJP knows well that it is not the government of the people’s votes, the government was elected by the EVM. So, it does not matter how much ever you beat the people because, they get votes from the EVM not from the public” This post claims that – on 1 June 2019, the teaching staff of Gorakhpur, UP were beaten up mercilessly. It is not possible to hide this kind of police vandalism from the media. Because no news of this incident was shown in news channels or newspapers on that day or the other day. Let us see what the facts are!

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA:

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

We first took screen shots of frames using InVid tool. After this, we did a reverse image search the screenshots. What we got in the search is below:

This result gave us a news published by ‘Deccan Chronicle’ dated February 1, 2016. In this news, the same video like above, is seen. The news states that after the suicide of a Dalit student Rohith Vemula, the student of Hyderabad University; students protested in front of the RSS head office in New Delhi. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal condemned police’s purported assault on protesters. It has also said in the news that Aam Aadmi Party made this video viral.

DeccanChronicalPost | ArchivedLink

We took the screenshot from the video and then using Yandex did an image search. What we got is shared below.

In this search, we came across a news broadcast by ‘Firstpost’ dated 1 February 2016. This news used the same screenshot of the video, which we have given for reverse image search. The news states that after two days of lathi charge, now the student unions said that they would revolt even harder.

FirstspotPost | ArchivedLink

After getting this information, we searched for the original video with the key words ‘lathicharge on students protesting for rohit vemula’ on YouTube. We got multiple uploads by various TV channels with the same video news of the same incident posted above.

We got the uploaded video dated 1 February 2016 by ‘India TV’, as shown below.

Apart from this, we got a video from ‘NDTV’ dated 1 February 2016 too, as shown below.

Based on the information received from both the videos and the above information, it can be said clearly that, in the above claimed post, the shared video is not of Gorakhpur but of the capital Delhi. In addition, this video is not of 1 June 2019, but it is 30 January 2016.

Apart from this, this video also proves that this video is not by the staff, but by the lathi charge on students who are detaining in front of the RSS headquarters in Delhi to give justice to Rohit Vemula.

You can see both the video comparison below.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact checked and confirms that the photograph is being share in the post with a wrong narrative. We categorise the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased photographs and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.