A collection of images with actor Aamir Khan in them, is viral on many social media platforms with the following text :

“ये आमिर खान भी “तबलीगी जमात” जो कट्टर सुन्नी मुस्लिम संस्था हे से जुड़ा हुआ है

ओर फ़ोटो मे पाकिस्तानी कुत्ते मोलाना तारिक़ जमील जो भारत में आतंकवादियो को पालने और दहशत फेलाने में अहम रोल अदा करता हे से गले मिल रहा है।

इसके अलावा भारतीय सेना को अपशब्द कहने वाला शाहिद आफरीदी भी इसे गले लगाकर शुक्रिया भाई जान कह रहा है।”

Translation: Yes Aamir Khan is also associated with “Tablighi Jamaat”, a radical Sunni Muslim organization.

And in the photo, Pakistani dog Molana Tariq Jamil, who plays an important role in raising terror and terror in India, is being hugged.

Apart from this, Shahid Afridi, who is abusing the Indian Army, is embracing it and saying thank you, brother.

Claim: The viral image claims to be of Bollywood actor Aamir Khan who met a terrorist Junaid Jamshed from Laskar-E-Taiba, Maulana Tariq Jameel from Tablighi Jamat along with Shahid Afridi during his trip to Mecca.

Facebook

Twitter

Have you ever questioned your brother Aamir Khan as to WHY he meets people who are

ANTI- INDIANS… Don't always play your

VICTIM CARD… pic.twitter.com/x3QNTwxgYy — Subba Rao🇮🇳🇮🇳 (@yessirtns) August 17, 2020

The archived link to this tweet can be accessed from here.

These photos were viral years ago too

2015 –

#AamirKhan 's tolerance is tolerating terrorists like Tarik Jameel pic.twitter.com/TkDXRZmQ3g — Sanjay Rathod (@Sanjay_Vis) November 24, 2015

The archived link to this tweet can be accessed from here.

Truth

During the course of our investigation, we investigated the images with the help of Google reverse image search and found out that these images were shared by the official verified Twitter handle of deceased Pakistani singer Junaid Jamshed who died in a plane crash in the year 2016.

With @Aamir_Khan and Maulana Tariq Jameel Sahab accompanied by Afridi. pic.twitter.com/SyipeQZBoq — Junaid Jamshed (@JunaidJamshedPK) March 14, 2013

In the tweet itself, Junaid Jamshed states that he met Aamir Khan along with Maulana Tariq Jameel from Tablighi Jamaat and Cricketer Shahid Afridi.

With this text, we could establish that along with Junaid Jamshed the other person standing with Aamir Khan in this viral picture is Maulana Tariq Jameel who is a reknowned scholar from the Islamic scholar and religious teacher associated with the Tablighi Jamat. The details of Maulana Tariq Jameel’s association with the Tablighi Jamat is also mentioned on the official website of Tablighi Jamat.

Even Maulana Tariq Jameel also mentioned this meeting in one of his videos dated 23rd November 2013.

During a keyword search on google, we also found out that Aamir Khan also met Cricketer Shahid Afridi during his Hajj pilgrimage.NDTV sports carried out this news in one of its articles dated 23rd October 2012.

Therefore in our investigation, it was found that the claims made on these viral pictures were found to be false. The viral pictures were found to be from the Hajj pilgrimage of Aamir Khan and it does not have any connection with the terrorists.