A picture is going viral on different platforms of social media where we can see Mohan Bhagwat (6th Sarsanghchalak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) and Asaduddin Owaisi (the President of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen) sharing seats together in a party. A user on Twitter a picture where Mohan Bhagwat, Asaduddin Owaisi with other BJP members can be seen. Ismail Sayyed tweeted, “Owaisi reached Mohan Bhagwat’s place to make Hyderabadi khichdi… Is there B team of BJP somewhere Red question mark ornamented question mark ornament Aye is right? @asadowaisi sir @MohanBhagwat123 sir”

https://twitter.com/kripalram01/status/1483087820138770435?s=20

The viral image was posted on 17th-18th January 2022.

Fact Check

After researching about the authentication of the picture, we got to know that the picture was from Mohan Bhagwat’s birthday party. Arjun Ram Meghawal posted a picture from Mr. Bhagwat’s birthday party on 20 December 2021, Mr. Meghawal wrote, “राष्ट्रीय स्वयंसेवक संघ के परम पूज्य सरसंघचालक मा. @DrMohanBhagwat जी से आज जन्मदिवस के अवसर पर आत्मीय भेंट करके आशीर्वाद लिया।आपका स्नेह, सहयोग, मार्गदर्शन, सदैव कर्तव्य पथ पर चलते हुए माँ भारती की निरंतर सेवा करने की प्रेरणा देता है।“

The tweet roughly translates in English that Mr. Meghawal took blessings from Mohan Bhagwat.

राष्ट्रीय स्वयंसेवक संघ के परम पूज्य सरसंघचालक मा. @DrMohanBhagwat जी से आज जन्मदिवस के अवसर पर आत्मीय भेंट करके आशीर्वाद लिया।आपका स्नेह, सहयोग, मार्गदर्शन, सदैव कर्तव्य पथ पर चलते हुए माँ भारती की निरंतर सेवा करने की प्रेरणा देता है। pic.twitter.com/Df01oETcKM — Arjun Ram Meghwal (Modi Ka Parivar) (@arjunrammeghwal) December 20, 2021

In the actual tweet, you can see Mulayam Singh Yadav (Member of Lok Sabha and founder of the Samajwadi Party) is sitting. The viral image was photoshopped as on the place of Mulayam Singh editor placed Asaduddin Owaisi.

On the other hand UP Congress posted the same picture on 20th December 2021. UP Congress added a comment, “The ‘S’ in “New SP” stands for ‘Federalism’?

Conclusion: Hence proving the image is photoshopped and fake.