In less than a day, an image of three Muslim men, with one of them holding a microphone in his hand, had more than 7,000 shares and around 800 comments. This is because it carried a provocative caption that the All India Muslim Personal Law Board had demanded "another partition" of India.

"Hamein sharia adalat nahin diya ja sakta to mussalmano ke liye alag desh diya jaye," read the message in blue below the photo of AIMPLB members identified as Maulana Khalilur Rahman Sajjad Nomani, Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani and Maulana Umrain Mahfooz Rahmani.

advertisement

But when India Today Fact Check investigated the Facebook post, the findings exposed the mischief -- the AIMPLB, which advocates for Islamic laws, had made no such sensationalist demand.

Right-wing Facebook users, we discovered, lapped up an old photo of the three board members to generate a negative narrative around the Muslim community in the wake of the AIMPLB announcing plans to expand Sharia courts across the country.

Remember, board secretary Zafaryab Jilani had told India Today on Sunday that the organisation would meet on July 15 to create more Dar-ul-Qaza, or Sharia courts, in India.

Since 1993, several Dar-ul-Qaza have been engaged in resolving martial and religious disputes amongst Muslims, Jilani explained. They are headed by a Qazi or an Islamic adjudicator. If the issues are not settled amicably at Dar-ul-Qaza, stakeholders can take them to regular courts should they wish, Jilani added.

India Today's Viral Test team reached out to Jilani again, this time to fact-check the Facebook posts about partition demands linked to the AIMPLB.

The board secretary refuted the social media reports as fake news.

"Indian Muslims," he said, "have suffered a lot because of the partition (of 1947). We don't want to live anywhere else other than India. We are committed to the Indian constitution."

So that explained why the AIMPLB had made no demand for a separate homeland for Muslims. In fact, the shocking call for another partition had come a day before from a mufti in Kashmir and not any mainstream Islamic organisation.

On Monday, Nasir-ul-Islam, the grand deputy mufti and vice-chairman of the J&K Sharia court, spoke about dividing the country once again on religious lines "if the BJP or anyone else has problems with the religious practices of Muslims."

A malicious case of cut-paste by right-wing propagandists, who attributed the mufti's stunning statement to the AIMPLB for sheer sensationalism, the Viral Test found.