A photo of new Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann and Aam Aadmi Party supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been making the rounds of social media with a questionable claim.

Some shared the photo claiming that, unlike his party colleagues, Kejriwal wore shoes while paying tribute to Indian revolutionary Bhagat Singh.

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the photo was not related to the claim in any way. The photo was taken on March 13 at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar.

Archived versions of posts with similar claims can be seen here and here.

AFWA PROBE

IMAGE SOURCE

While investigating the claim, we first reverse-searched the image and found the same image was published by the Dainik Jagaran on March 14.

The caption did not give us a clear indication of the exact location of the photo. However, it was clear that the photo was taken on March 13, the day Kejriwal and Mann paid visits to the Golden Temple, Jallianwala Bagh, and the Durgiana Temple in Amritsar.

To further confirm the exact location of the photo, we got in touch with Amit Sharma, the AajTak correspondent in Amritsar, who confirmed, “This photo was taken in Jallianwala Bagh.”

Taking it as a cue, we conducted another keyword search and found a Facebook video that captured their visit.

At the 6:25 mark in this video, we can see the same red building in the background that’s also visible in the viral image. Even the floor design, visible in the video, looked similar to the viral image.

PAYING TRIBUTE TO BHAGAT SINGH

This brings us to the next question: Did Arvind Kejriwal recently pay tribute to Bhagat Singh?

We conducted a keyword search and found a few news reports that said Kejriwal was present in Khatkar Kalan, the native village of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, on March 16. He was there to grace the swearing-in ceremony of Bhagwant Mann.

Prior to this event, Kejriwal and Mann paid homage at the memorial of Bhagat Singh in Khatkar Kalan.

We found a video uploaded to the official Facebook page of the Aam Aadmi Party on March 16 where Kejriwal and Mann could be seen paying tribute to Bhagat Singh.

In this video, both Kejriwal and Mann can be seen wearing different attires from that in the viral image. More importantly, Kejriwal was not wearing his shoes while paying tribute to Bhagat Singh.

Hence, we concluded that the claim along with the photo was false. The photo was taken on March 13, when Kejriwal and Mann visited the Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar. Both paid tribute to Bhagat Singh in Khatkar Kalan on March 16.

(WITH SANJANA SAXENA IN LUCKNOW)