On the borders of Russia and Ukraine, the tension between both the countries is potentially leading to a full-blown war. Russia is again doing the same movement against Ukraine. Initially, it was against Georgia in the year 2008. Ukraine is having a fear of invasion anytime soon, and the situation is getting worst on the borders.

In the midst of this, a picture is getting viral on social media platforms in which it is claimed that the Russians wrote “LET’S GO BRANDON” on the borders of Ukraine with their vehicles placed in the same manner. Moreover, it was claimed that the picture was posted by New York Post official Twitter handle.

Now Putin is just mocking us… pic.twitter.com/nvRmp9QwZj — Prison Mitch (@MidnightMitch) January 20, 2022

“LET’S GO BRANDON” is a phrase that is directed at democratic President Joe Biden and a way for conservatives to thumb their noses at what they see as liberal bias in the mainstream media.

It all started at the end of a televised Nascar stock car race in Talladega, Alabama, on 2 October. Obscene chants directed at the president have been a recurring theme at conservative gatherings and sporting events in recent months, so the “Brandon” line became a tongue-in-cheek way of evading media censorship and public sensibilities – while still getting the point across to those in the know. BBC has also covered a report on it

Fact Check

After our fact-check analysis, we got to know that the actual satellite image shows nothing like this. The image that got viral is a photoshopped image. Along with it, no such image was posted by the New York Post.

Below is the real tweet of @nypost

New satellite images show extent of Russia buildup along Ukraine border https://t.co/u5fQAqULHP pic.twitter.com/MpHPif3ruI — New York Post (@nypost) January 20, 2022

Many media houses like Reuters, Insider News, NBC News, etc. posted videos showing the satellite images of Russian forces near Ukraine border.

Conclusion

The viral satellite image is photoshopped and is not shared by the New York Post’s official Twitter handle, the real image does not show “let’s go Brandon”. This can be seen in the image below, where the image on the left is the true satellite picture whereas the one on the right is fake.