A Facebook user named ‘Rahul Gandhi Fan Club’ shared a post on 10 June 2019. The post has a screen grab of a Breaking News by ABP Majha and as translated from Hindi quotes “To even touch the Muslims, you will have to cross over my dead body – Narendra Modi.” As per this post’s claim, the woman shown in the post is an Indian soldier. Let us see what the facts are!

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA:

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

ABP Majha is a Marathi News Channel. All the news published in this channel are in Marathi language. A specific regional language news channel publishing news in a different language is very unlikely. This detail raised our inquisitiveness for fact check and we searched the APB Majha channel on ‘YouTube’ to see the pattern of their ‘Breaking News’ videos. What we got in the search is below:

We have taken this screen grab from ABP Majha’s ‘YouTube’ channel for reference. You may click on the link below to view the video.

YouTubeLink

Post this; we compared the patter retrieved from You Tube Vs the picture found in the Facebook Post. In this comparison, we found that the taken background is from the ABP Majha’s Breaking News video; however, the main content is morphed using Photoshop.

The claimed post shared, has a different font pattern than the original patter of this news channel. Apart from this, the background of the news-text is painted and is clearly visible. The colour also differs.

Based on our identification, when we tried to search on google with the claimed sentence, we got nothing of this sort said by Narendra Modi. The background of a news channel video is morphed and used with a false statement, to spread a fake news and mislead readers.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact checked and confirms that the photograph is being share in the post with a wrong narrative. We categorise the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased photographs and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.