Multiple videos and images of protests and rioting across the United States have been circulating on social media following the death of African-American George Floyd due to excessive police force.

Amid this, a video of security forces in riot gear has gone viral with the claim that Atlanta, a city in the US, has deployed "child militia" to quell protesters. Like several American cities, Atlanta, too, has been witnessing a wave of protests and police action over the last few days.

advertisement

Many Facebook users have shared the 10-second clip along with the caption, "Atlanta has deployed a child militia at Lenox Mall fitted with riot shields and batons"

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral claim is misleading. The uniformed persons in riot gear seen in the video are members of Georgia National Guard and of eligible age to join the force.

The archived versions of the post can be seen here and here. The post is viral on Facebook,

The Atlanta police department has retweeted a post by Georgia National Guard calling the viral claim of using child soldiers to assist local law enforcement as "rumors" and "false". The tweet clarifies that to become a member of the Georgia National Guard, one has to be of legal age, i.e. 18 years old, or 17 with parents' consent.

To become a service member

in the Georgia National Guard you are required to be of legal age and that is 18 years old (17 with parents consent). The rumors of us having child Soldiers to assist local law enforcement in protecting lives and property is false. pic.twitter.com/9Eyf1qkdaJ — GA National Guard (@GeorgiaGuard) May 30, 2020

International fact-check website "Snopes" has also confirmed with the Atlanta police department that the men seen in the video clip were members of Georgia National guard and all of them were of eligible age.

Hence, the claim made in the viral post is misleading, as none of the uniformed persons in riot gear seen in the video is a child soldier.

Why has the US erupted?

Racial tensions have been simmering in the US following the death of 46-year-old African-American George Floyd in Minneapolis after his arrest by a white police officer turned fatal. The incident took place on May 25.

A store, suspecting Floyd of using a counterfeit note, had called the police, following which an officer, Derek Chauvin, put his knee on Floyd's neck for more than eight minutes. Floyd was filmed pleading and repeatedly saying "I can't breathe".

Four police officers were fired and Chauvin charged with murder. But protests broke out across the country with demonstrators clashing with police and setting buildings and vehicles on fire in several cities.

advertisement

Also Read | `Death By Racism’: Part of America’s DNA from the start?

WATCH | Protests across US over George Floyd killing