A short clip showing a burning vehicle on a bridge has gone viral with the claim that an oil tanker caught fire and exploded recently on the Gachibowli flyover in Hyderabad.

Several Facebook users have posted the 25-second video with the caption, “Oil tanked got fired up and burst on Gachibowli flyover, Hyderabad”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the incident took place not in Hyderabad but on Warje bridge in Pune over a month back. It was not an oil tanker that caught fire but a running truck. The driver saved his life by jumping off the vehicle.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

The actual incident

With the help of InVID and reverse image search, we found that the same video was uploaded by several YouTubers in the first week of December 2020. These videos mention the place as “Warje flyover, Pune”.

Using keyword search, we found news reports on the incident . The article published by “Dainik Bhashkar” carries the same video that went viral.

As per these news reports, on the evening of December 5, 2020, a truck caught fire on Warje flyover in Pune. No one was injured in the incident. The driver of the truck jumped off the vehicle and saved his life. According to police, the truck was carrying food items. Due to the fire, vehicular movement on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, towards Kolhapur from Mumbai, was affected.

On the other hand, as the video started circulating on social media as from Gachibowli flyover in Hyderabad, the Cyberabad police on January 14, 2021, tweeted a clarification. “This viral video is not of Gachibowli flyover. It is a FALSE news. It had happened on the Warje bridge, Pune a few days back. No such incidents have occurred in Hyderabad,” it tweeted.

This viral video is not of Gachibowli flyover. It is a FALSE news.

It had happened on the Warje bridge, Pune a few days back.

No such incidents have occurred in Hyderabad.

Warning : Persons spreading rumours/misinformation leading to public fear will be dealt as per law. pic.twitter.com/ViOYlpxJDA — CYBERABAD TRAFFIC POLICE (@CYBTRAFFIC) January 14, 2021

Hence, it is confirmed that the viral claim along with the video is misleading as the incident is one month old and it happened not in Hyderabad but in Pune. Also, it wasn’t an oil tanker but a truck that caught fire.

Also read: Fact Check: Hima Das has not yet qualified for the 2021 Tokyo Olympics

Also read: Fact Check: This ‘Islamophobic’ news headline about Kerala cricketer Azharuddeen is fake