Following the recent incident of communal violence in Khargone, Madhya Pradesh, a video was shared widely on social media with the claim that Muslims organised a rally, playing loud music on the very day and at the very spot where violence broke out.

Several social media users shared the video with the claim: “A procession with green flags and DJ music passing by a temple in Khargone, MP, where a Ram Navami procession was attacked with stones.”

advertisement

A procession with green flags and DJ music passing by a temple in Khargone, MP, where a Ram Navami procession was attacked with stones.



Lyrics of the song:

Kar denge tadi par

bulaaun kya Ali ko

Ek baar mein mit jayega har baar ka jhagda

bulaaun kya Ali ko pic.twitter.com/GWPqD1RJz0 — MS Chauhan (@Talk2MkSChauhan) April 13, 2022

The India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim was misleading. This video shared was old and had no connection with the communal clashes in Khargone during Ram Navami.

Archived versions of posts with similar claims can be seen here and here.

AFWA PROBE

A reverse search of keyframes from the video led us to the same video uploaded to YouTube on September 20, 2018, on the channel “YT Aamir Khan MP10”.

The title of the video stated it was shot on the ninth day of Muharram in Khargone, MP.

A Google search revealed that in 2018, the ninth day of Muharram fell on September 20, the same day the video was uploaded to the YouTube channel.

While we did not find the video shared by any reliable source, we tried to confirm the exact location of the video.

Taking a closer look at the video, we noticed a signboard that mentioned the name and contact numbers for a wedding horse rental service — “Jagdish Bhai” — at the 20-second mark.

To further confirm the claim, we contacted one of the numbers. Jagdish Tiwari, the proprietor of the business, told India Today that he was a resident of Khargone in Madhya Pradesh, and this video was from the same city. He was, however, unable to confirm if the video was from 2018.

Therefore, we concluded that this video was shared with false claims. While the video was from Khargone, it had no links to the recent incident of violence that took place on Ram Navami.