Kanpur witnessed incidents of stone-pelting and violence on June 3, Friday. As per reports, 36 people have been arrested and 1,000 others listed as unknown accused on charges of rioting and attempt to murder. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the police to identify those responsible and take strict action.

There are several videos of police action on the alleged rioters doing the rounds on social media. Among these is a video that shows policemen thrashing a few men on the street at night.

advertisement

Multiple verified Twitter handles and Facebook users have posted this viral video alongside a Hindi caption that translates to, "These strange sounds coming from the streets of Kanpur at midnight have been called auspicious in the scriptures. Babaji's police taking good care of Jihadi stone pelters."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is neither recent nor from Kanpur. This 2020 video was from the Mumbra area of Thane in Maharashtra.

The viral posts are saved here, here and here.

AFWA probe

A reverse image search of the viral video's keyframes gave us clues that this video had circulated earlier on the internet, besides multiple claims.

While some netizens had claimed the video was from Indore during the days of Covid lockdown, some others claimed that it was from Telangana. Several users raised doubts over these viral claims and said the video was from Mumbra, Thane.

Taking this as a clue, we ran a keyword search accordingly in Hindi and found multiple news reports published on Hindi news portals which had reported the real story of the video.

A YouTube news channel, "Hindustani Reporter," had uploaded a news clip along with the same viral video to report an incident on March 29, 2020. As per this report, the incident happened on March 27, 2020, in Kausa, Shree Lanka area of Mumbra, when supporters of two local politicians clashed. The police resorted to a lathi-charge to disperse the mob and regain control of the situation.

Thus, it is clear that a two-year-old video from Maharashtra is being circulated with the misleading claim that it shows police action in Kanpur after the recent Friday violence.