A video of Taiwan shooting down a Chinese fighter jet is doing the rounds on social media with claims that it violated Taiwan's airspace. The news comes amid ongoing tensions between the US and China in the South China Sea.

Multiple users on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter have posted such claims.

One of the claims read, "Taiwan has claimed to have brought down a Chinese Air Force Su-35 that allegedly violated its airspace over Taiwan Strait, today. Multiple videos circulating on social media show a jet, believed to be a Chinese People's Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) Su-35, engulfed in thick smoke in an unknown location. Unconfirmed reports state that the Chinese pilot who was injured in the incident was captured by the Taiwanese military."

advertisement

Some users have also posted videos and screengrabs of footage allegedly showing the Chinese fighter plane wreckage engulfed in flames and thick smoke.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

India Today Anti- Fake News war room ( AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim. Taiwan did not claim to have shot down a Chinese aircraft. Taiwan's Ministry of National Defence issued a statement on September 4, 2020, saying that the viral claim of Taiwan shooting down a Chinese Su-35 fighter jet was 'false information'.

Taiwan's Ministry of National Defense, R.O.C tweeted "In response to rumors online that claim a Chinese Su-35 fighter jet had been shot down by Taiwan air defense systems, #ROCAirForce would like to categorically state this is fake news. We urge netizens to not spread it and strongly condemn this malicious act."

In the press release by the Taiwan ministry, the Air Force Command emphasised that to "maintain airspace security, the headquarters will continue to closely monitor the conditions of the sea and airspace around Taiwan Strait".

Several Taiwanese media outlets and websites also reported how the Taiwan government denied the ongoing viral social media claims.

The same has also been reported by the international media.

There are also no news reports from Chinese media on the viral claim. We could not independently find any more credible details about the viral video showing the plane wreckage.

As per a Taiwanese media report, in one of the videos, the photographer could be heard saying, "The latest news is that a plane was blown off a high-voltage line and fell down with a slam."

Till the time of publishing this article, there was no such confirmation about a Chinese plane being shot down in Taiwan.