Bengaluru witnessed widespread violence on the night of August 11 as an angry mob started pelting stones and torching vehicles following a derogatory Facebook post, allegedly put up by a Congress legislator’s relative. Three people were killed and more than 35 civilians grievously injured after the Bengaluru Police opened fire to control the riots. 70 police personnel were also injured in the attacks.

advertisement

An image of a truck set on fire in broad daylight is circulating on social media platforms with the claim that it is from Tuesday’s Bengaluru riots.

The Hindi caption to one such image on Facebook translates to, “Jihadis created panic in the city of Bengaluru last night.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim is misleading. The image used in the post is from the 2016 Cauvery riots in Bengaluru when angry protestors, unhappy with a Supreme Court ruling in the favour of the neighbouring state Tamil Nadu, set vehicles with Tamil Nadu registration on fire.

The archived version of the post can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

According to reports, violence erupted and a mob started torching vehicles in Bengaluru on the night of August 11. On the other hand, in the viral image, the truck is seen burning in broad daylight with onlookers watching. However, we couldn’t find reports from credible sources that said the violence prolonged till the morning of August 12.

Taking clues from this, we did a reverse image search and found that the viral image is from the Cauvery riots that happened in September 2016, in Bangalore.

Cauvery issue is a decades-old water dispute case between Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Kerala. Widespread violence had broken out in southern Karnataka in September 2016 after the Supreme Court asked Karnataka to share more water from the Cauvery river to the neighbouring Tamil Nadu.

We found that the viral image of the burning truck was carried by several media houses while reporting the Cauvery riots in 2016.

A report by Bloomberg also carried the image with credit to AFP’s photojournalist Manjunath Kiran and Getty images.

We also found the image on stock images site "Getty Images". According to the site, the image was clicked on September 12, 2016.

Also, the viral image of the burning truck was captured from HSR layout in Bangalore which is almost 13 km away from Pulikeshi Nagar where the August 11 violence took place.

Hence the viral image of a truck set on fire is from the 2016 Cauvery riots in Bengaluru and has nothing to do with August 11 violence in the Pulikeshi Nagar area of the city.