The month of Ramadan is going on. People of the Muslim community fast for the entire day and break it in the evening which is known as Iftar for a month. During the iftar, all the family members or crew members sit together and eat. Meanwhile, people often share the picture of Iftar, and likewise, a picture of army men having Iftari is getting viral on social media.

Md Shadab Alam posted the viral pictures where army men of different religions are sitting in the hall during the iftar. In the caption, he raised a question of why the sign of OM which is a sacred spiritual symbol of Hinduism is hung on the wall of the mosque.

Another user posted the same pictures with the repeated caption and also made a statement that Muslims of Ganga Jamuni Tahjeeb are making other people of the community do Kufr and Shirk.

मस्जिद में ॐ का पोस्टर क्यों?

गंगा-जुम्मनी तहज़ीब व हिंदू-मुस्लिम भाईचारा के नाम पर मुसलमानों से कुफ्फार अपनी शर्तों पर इस्लाम के विरुद्ध मुसलमानों से कुफ्र व शिर्क करवा रहा है,

और तो और जुम्मनी तहज़ीब वाले "मुसलमान" ऐसे शिर्क व कुफ्र को खुशी खुशी एक्सेप्ट भी कर रहे हैं! pic.twitter.com/SZS0sN4rPh — Aƚιϝ Aʂʅαɱ✨ (@mr_atif45) April 29, 2022

Fact check

After doing a Google image search, we found the viral picture in a tweet on Irfan Quraishi on Twitter. He claimed senior citizens at old air rifle hoisted an Iftar Party for the army men.

#Army meets senior citizens at Old Air Field in #Srinagar. Hosts Iftar Party. @ChinarcorpsIA Commander Lt General DP Pandey also attended Nimaz (Prayers offered by Muslims). pic.twitter.com/q7yR7phiqY — Irfan Quraishi 🌙 (@irfanquraishi85) April 25, 2022

PRO Defence Srinagar also posted the pictures from the iftari party hoisted for the army men. Therefore the claim is misleading as the Iftar was conducted in the hall and not in the mosque. Moreover, it was all done for maintaining peace and harmony among the people.

Conclusion: The claim is misleading

Claim review: a sign of OM was found hung on the walls of a Mosque.

Claim by: Md Shadab Alam

Fact check: misleading