Following the recent beheadings of a teacher in Paris and a woman in Nice, France has been in a state of unrest. The country has raised its national security alert to its highest level in the likely event of more militant attacks.

Amid various reports of turmoil in France, a screengrab of Indian journalist Rana Ayyub’s interview with CNN is viral on social media. According to one claim which shared the screengrab, Ayyub purportedly said that people cannot hate all Muslims just because of two beheadings that took place in France.

advertisement

The caption to one such post in Hindi translates as “Rana Ayyub says you cannot hate all Muslims owing to "only" two beheadings. These are the people who find the country unsafe if someone puts a tilak or sticks Lord Hanuman's poster on the car...”

Similar claims are also shared on Facebook.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false. The viral image is morphed and is from an interview Ayyub gave on March 1, 2020, in connection with the Delhi riots that took place in February. She has not made any claim - like the viral post suggests - on the beheading.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

When we searched for interviews of Ayyub with CNN, we found a Fareed Zakaria show uploaded on the official website on CNN in March this year. The title of the video reads, “On GPS: Delhi's worst sectarian violence in decades”. The description of the video reads, “Rana Ayyub tells Fareed about what's spurring the latest violent riots in New Delhi.”

In the video, Ayyub can be heard talking about the Delhi riots that happened in February 2020.

On comparing the video with the viral image, it became clear that the image is a morphed screengrab from the interview Ayyub gave to CNN in March.

Throughout the interview, we could not find any statement by Ayyub that matches the viral claim. Also, no ticker appeared in the video that reads, “You can not hate all the Muslims for just two beheadings”.

The ticker in the viral image has misspelt "Ayyub" as "Ayub". It also has other evident grammar and spelling mistakes such as “cannot” written as “can not” and “beheading” instead of “beheadings”.

The interview was shared by CNN on its official Twitter handle on March 1, 2020. The description of the video reads, “Violent communal clashes killed dozens in New Delhi during President Trump’s visit to India.”

advertisement Violent communal clashes killed dozens in New Delhi during President Trump’s visit to India.

“All this was happening at the same time as Trump was... telling the world that Modi has got everything in control,” Indian journalist @RanaAyyub says.https://t.co/Le24mtzW8d pic.twitter.com/WQQXSHoecw— CNN (@CNN) March 1, 2020

The same interview was also shared by Ayyub on her Facebook page on March 2, 2020.

On October 31, Ayyub too shared one of the viral posts on her verified Twitter handle and clarified that the claim is false and she has not made any such statement on the beheading in France.

“The Indian right wing at it again. Morphed a fake statement on an old image stating that "you cannot hate all muslims for just two beheadings". This image has been shared a thousand times all over social media and i am sick of battling this disinformation,” Ayyub tweeted.

The Indian right wing at it again. Morphed a fake statement on an old image stating that "you cannot hate all muslims for just two beheadings". This image has been shared a thousand times all over social media and i am sick of battling this disinformation. pic.twitter.com/UbpQZG83bM— Rana Ayyub (@RanaAyyub) October 30, 2020

advertisement

We also checked comments made by Ayyub on the recent attacks in France. However, we couldn’t find any similar claims.

Hence, it becomes clear that the viral screengrab is morphed and Ayyub has not made any such statement condoning the beheadings in France.