In what is termed as the largest anti-government protests in Belarus in Eastern Europe, thousands of protestors took to the streets of Minsk and other cities in the land-locked country voicing their anger over the disputed results of a recently concluded Presidential elections.

While people have been demanding the resignation of Belarus' President Alexander Lukashenko, a video of a huge ball painted with the portrait of Lukashenko rolling on a street is viral on social media with the claim that it shows the ongoing protests in the country. The ball is followed by several other balls painted in Belarus’ flag colours, representing the protesting common man.

advertisement

The caption to one such video uploaded on Twitter reads, “This Belarus protest is like wow”.

Several people on the internet perceived this video as a scene from the ongoing unrest in Belarus.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is not real. It is a computer graphics made using visual effects software.

The video is also viral on Facebook and YouTube.

The archived versions of the post can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With an advanced keyword search on Twitter, we found the official Twitter account of BBC_HaveYourSay enquiring about the authenticity of a similar video uploaded by Twitter user Janek Lasocki.

The Twitter user replied: "It was made by a special effects artist based in St Petersburg called Alexander Ivanov."

The artist's Instagram account was also shared in the reply to BBC's question.

Taking clues from this, we found that the same video in question was posted on August 19, 2020, with the caption "You shall not pass, Lukashenko!" on the Instagram page of Alexander Ivanov, a filmmaker and VFX artist based in St. Petersburg, Russia.

We can also see the artist's Instagram handle (@jilrock1) marked in the video.

When AFWA reached out to Ivanov, he confirmed to us that the video is not real and was only a symbolic representation of the ongoing protests in Belarus.

“The video was not captured on the ground. I created it using computer graphics. The portrait of President Alexander Lukashenko used in the video was given to me by Boris Groh, an artist based out of Ukraine,” Ivanov said.

We also found the portrait of Alexander Lukashenko used in the video on the Instagram page of Groh.

Hence, the viral video is not of the ongoing protests in Belarus but is a computer graphics made using special effects by a VFX artist from Russia as a symbolic representation of the protest.