Former Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s experiments with trendy hairstyles and looks have always set new fashion goals for youngsters.

But the recent one has many on social media stumped! An image of Dhoni in tonsured head and in a monk robe is circulating on social media, with several netizens claiming that the former keeper-batsman has been initiated into Buddhism.

advertisement

Many Facebook users have posted the picture with a caption in Hindi. See below the picture being referred to.

It translates to, “World cup winner and former Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has converted to Buddhism. Buddham Sharanam Gachchhami”



India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral claim to be misleading. This picture of Dhoni in a monk-like avatar is for a “Star Sports” campaign. The sports channel had posted this image and a video of Dhoni on social media, inviting people’s reactions.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here .

Secret behind Dhoni’s new avatar

Dhoni’s new look has already created a flutter on social media. But this is actually a campaign by Star Sports. The campaign features Dhoni in a monk-like look and asks people what they think the cricketer’s “new avatar” is all about.

Start Sports is the official broadcaster of the Indian Premier League, starting April 9.

- our faces since we saw #MSDhoni's new avatar that could just break the Internet! What do you think is it about? pic.twitter.com/Mx27w3uqQh — Star Sports (@StarSportsIndia) March 13, 2021

Star Sports has also put out a short video clip of Dhoni, teasing viewers about the mantra behind the new avatar.

AFWA spoke to Arun Pandey, known as a friend, confidante and business partner of Dhoni.

Dismissing the viral claim of Dhoni converting to Buddhism, Pandey said, “This is just a new campaign of Star Sports and nothing else.”

Hence, the viral claim saying Dhoni has converted to Buddhism is misleading. The viral image is just a campaign by IPL broadcaster Star Sports.