An audio clip claiming to be of renowned heart surgeon Dr Devi Shetty is going viral on Facebook, Twitter, and WhatsApp.

The audio message comes with a graphics plate with Dr Devi Shetty's photo and Covid-19 in a bold font written beside it.

There is a channel name "daiji world TV" visible all over the graphics at the top left corner of the frame.

advertisement

In the viral clip, the voice claims this to be an important message and says that there is a "peculiar problem" in India and urges "everyone who has the coronavirus or is suspected of it, should not go get it tested."

The voice continues saying, "India has 1.4 billion people and the kits we have are less than 1,50,000 at this point of time," the voice said. So he asks people with suspected symptoms of flu to wait till eight days. After the eighth day if the symptoms persist then one should go for the coronavirus tests.

In the entire clip, the name claims this is the voice of Dr Devi Shetty, the founder of Narayana Health.

Several users on Facebook like " Tejaswini C Jayaraj"and "Karnataka Medical Association" have posted this message believing this to be of Dr Devi Shetty.

The archived version of the post is saved here (http://archive.today/8jhwo)and here.

India Today Anti-Fake News War room ( AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim, as this is not the audio message of Dr Devi Shetty. The viral audio clip has been falsely attributed to Dr Devi Shetty.

This viral post has been shared by many on Facebook.

Claim going viral on Facebook

Soon after this audio clip went viral, Narayana Health, founded by Dr Devi Shetty tweeted saying that this audio clip has been incorrectly attributed to him.

Please note this audio clip is not of Dr. Devi Shetty, Chairman and Founder, Narayana Health. It has been incorrectly attributed to him. Narayana Health (@NarayanaHealth) March 19, 2020

Interestingly, the person in the viral audio clip has never identified him as Dr Devi Shetty. We could not identify the person behind the viral clip.

One can listen to Dr Devi Shetty's recent discussion on coronavirus with NDTV here. One can also notice the sharp distinction between Dr Shetty's voice with the viral voice.

As per the news report of "Financial Express", Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that India is in Stage 2 which means local transmission exists and not community transmission as of yet.

On the WHO's concern, that countries may not be doing enough testing to determine community outbreak, as per the news report of Financial Express, a senior scientist of ICMR opined, "WHO does not give country-specific guidelines, the DG has told the country office that this is not a statement to be given for a country like India, because it creates more fear, more paranoia, and more hype."