A tweet from the news channel ‘Aaj Tak’ went viral on social media sites. It can be seen in this tweet that there is news of a chemical blast in a mosque in Gowliguda Gol, Hyderabad. It has also been claimed that 2 people were injured in this blast.

Sharing the screenshot of this tweet, a user named Poornima Biswas wrote “Islamic bomb scientists were at work and then chemical bomb has the fart ! Ola uber.”

Another user Vikas Choudhary also shared the same screenshot of the tweet in Hinglish with the caption, “Baulana Chemistry Practical kar raha tha Basjid me”.

On the other hand, a Twitter user named The Speaker captioned, “What is the use of chemicals in the mosque? So much chemical that it exploded, why was it collected? What kind of chemical was there that would explode?” and shared the same screenshot.

Fact Check:

To know the reality of the viral screenshot, we first checked the Twitter account of Aaj Tak. During this we found this tweet on Aaj Tak Twitter, in which it has been claimed that there has been a chemical blast in the mosque. A link to a news article published on the website has been posted along with this tweet.

The report regarding the incident can be read by opening the link of this news. However, there is no report of chemical blast anywhere inside the mosque in the report.

At the same time, this incident has been covered by other media houses including The New Indian Express, The News Minute. According to which the chemical blast did not happen inside the mosque.

According to these reports- “Blast occurred at around 10 am on June 12 at Mogram Basti in Maharajganj area of ​​Afzalganj in Hyderabad and chemical trader Bharat Bhattar died on the spot.

Police said Bhattar used to throw the expired chemical into the drain in front of his shop, which led to the blast that day.”

Conclusion:

It is clear from this fact check of DFRAC that the tweet made by Aaj Tak is fake. Giving a communal angle, Aaj Tak linked the chemical blast incident to the mosque. Since the chemical blast did not happen in any mosque in Hyderabad, the claim being made by “Aaj Tak” and social media users is wrong and false.

Claim Review: Chemical blast in Hyderabad mosque

Claimed by: Aaj Tak and other social media users

Fact Check: Fake

Also Read: