A disturbing video showing two men assaulting a woman and whisking away a girl on a tractor has gone viral on social media with the claim that this is how Hindus are treated in Pakistan.

The claim along with the video says, "In Pakistan, Hindu mothers and sisters are forcibly taken away in front of their kids. All Hindus must share this so that the world and those Hindus who are opposing NRC and CAA and supporting Congress come to know of this."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The video is more than two years old and from Rajasthan. The video, along with the misleading claim, has gone viral on Facebook.

advertisement

AFWA probe

With a combination of reverse search and keywords, we found a news report by DNA regarding the incident. As per this report, the incident took place in Bap Tehsil in Jodhpur district of Rajasthan on September 11, 2017.

The report says that two men were arrested after a video of them abducting a minor girl and beating up her mother went viral on social media. Reportedly, one Ahmad Khan got his minor daughter married to a man called Shaukat. However, the girl's mother did not want her to stay with Shaukat till she attained 18 years of age.

Shaukat then reached the girl's village along with a friend and forcibly took her away. https://www.patrika.com/jodhpur-news/video-woman-beaten-up-brutally-while-her-daughter-abducted-in-jodhpur-1843840/Patrika had also covered the incident at that time.

The video went viral two years back as well with another misleading claim, which was debunked by fact-check website "boomlive".

Therefore, it is clear that the viral video is not from Pakistan but India itself. However, reports of atrocities on minorities in Pakistan abound.

A report by "abc.net" tells the story of two Hindu sisters, Reena and Raveena, who were abducted, forced to convert to Islam and married off to Muslim men in Pakistan. The girls had later become the face of forced religious conversions in Pakistan.