At a time farmers are protesting against corporatisation of agriculture, pictures of food grain sacks with Reliance Jio logos on them have gone viral on social media. Some of these sacks have taglines such as “Best Sharbati Gehu”, “Finest Quality Indian Pulses”, etc.

While the pictures have left some netizens surprised, others have called Reliance Jio’s apparent entry in food grain trading a “conspiracy” against farmers. Many have alleged that the three controversial farm laws have been introduced to benefit induswilliams trialists such as Mukesh Ambani, who owns Reliance.

advertisement

Manoj Lubana, a leader of Congress’s students’ wing NSUI, was among those who shared the set of pictures along with a caption in Hindi which translates to, “The sacks were made first, and the laws later. These pictures speak a lot.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the sacks with Jio logos on them have nothing to do with Reliance. These sacks are easily available in the market and many wholesalers sell different food grains in them.

The archived version of Manoj’s post can be seen here.

Aarti, a member of Aam Aadmi Party’s social media team, also retweeted one such post. Another Facebook user said in Hindi, “Reliance has full faith on Modi. Not only are Jio food grain godowns ready, but its name has been printed on sacks too.”

The archived version of this post can be seen here.

The truth

We found that one of the pictures had text in Gujarati written below it. Reverse-searching the image, we found a list of traders in several shopping websites who sell food grains in sacks with “Jio Best Sharbati Gehu” printed on them.

We reached out to Bharat Bhai, the owner of one such firm called Radhakrishna Trading Company. Bharat Bhai, a dealer of food grains, told AFWA that traders sell him various commodities in sacks with “Jio Best Sharbati Gehu” printed on them.

According to Bharat Bhai, “In Gujarat, the practice of selling food grains in sacks with Jio logos have been going on for several years now. Many a time, traders sell rice, bajra or dal in sacks with ‘wheat’ printed on them. Sacks with Jio logos look more attractive and the commodities sell faster. There are several companies that manufacture such sacks.”

We also found such sacks selling for Rs 7 each on the IndiaMART website.

We then reached out to a Reliance Jio spokesperson, who said the Jio sacks viral on social media have nothing to do with the company. Reliance Jio website has no mention of the company venturing into trade of food grains. Neither did any media house report on the matter.

advertisement

Companies with ‘Jio’ in their names

We found there are several companies dealing in agro products that have ‘Jio’ in their names. ‘Shri JioAgro Food Products Private Limited’ and ‘Jio Fresh’ based out of Maharashtra are among such firms. We reached out to Kamal Bakliwal, director of ‘Shri JioAgro Food Products Private Limited’, for information on their products. The article will be updated once his response is in.

Therefore, it is clear that pictures of sacks with Jio logos produced in local factories are being circulated on social media with the claim that Reliance Jio is venturing into food grain trade.