YouTuber named "Veer" has recently posted a video where he claimed that a Christian woman police officer has been thrashed and paraded naked in India by the "Saffron Hindus".

Veer showed the disturbing video of a naked woman being heckled by a mob on the street.

The video was uploaded on July 2, 2019 with the caption, "Indian Police officer Christan ko Bhgwa Hindu Ne Bhary Bzar Main Nanga kr k mara 18+ |VEER".

advertisement

The video begins with the male anchor greeting his viewers "Walaikum salaam" and urging them to watch his last video on Tabrej Ansari.

The anchor kept on speaking against the "Hindus", calling them "Bhagwa kutte".

Showing a small video clip, which has been blurred deliberately to avoid nudity, Veer alleged that the video showed a Christian woman police officer in India who has been stripped, beaten up and paraded naked on the road by the "Hindus".

Several hash tags like #IndiaHinduBhagwa, #IndianPolice, #VEER are mentioned in the caption of the video.

The archived version is here.

India Today Anti Fake News War room ( AFWA) found this to be a completely misleading claim. The disturbing video showing the heinous mob attack on a naked woman was from Bihar.

The incident took place last year in August. But there was no communal angle to the incident. The victim woman was not a Christian police officer.

This video on YouTube has been viewed by more than 47,000 people and liked by over 4,000.

The video was also uploaded by a Facebook page "FunToon". One user "Shahnawaz Ahmad" had also posted it on Twitter.

The same video had surfaced earlier on social media with another fake communal claim. Fact Checker "BoomLive" had debunked the claim at the time.

The incident shown in the video clip happened on August 20, 2018 and it created a national outrage on the media over Bihar's law and order situation.

This was widely reported by several national and international media.

According to these reports, a woman was thrashed and paraded naked by a mob in Bhojpur district on the suspicion of being involved in the murder of a local youth. This report along with video of the incident can be seen here.

As per these reports, the incident had neither any relation to any religion nor any communal angle to it.

YouTube channel "Veer" is run from Pakistan and has been subscribed by over 2.5 lakh people.

advertisement

The contents on the YouTube channel are quite inciting and deliberately done to stoke up communal hatred by using misinformation.

As per the information given on the Facebook page "Veer", he is a resident of Rawalpindi, Pakistan.

This YouTube channel is a classic example of how social media platforms are sometimes used deliberately by some people to propagate communal hatred in the country from across the border.