Torrential rains in southern India have wreaked havoc in various regions, with Hyderabad being one of the worst-affected cities. Heavy rains lashed the state of Telangana which recorded at least 50 deaths, with 31 deaths in Hyderabad alone. According to media reports, the loss suffered by the state due to the downpour so far stands at Rs 5,000 crore.

While rescue and relief operations are underway in the state, a video showing fishes swimming in a flooded house is viral on social media claiming that it is from the recent Hyderabad deluge.

advertisement

The caption to one such video reads, "Heavy rain in Hyderabad".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. This is an old video and is not related to the current Hyderabad rains.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA PROBE

With the help of the InVid tool and appropriate keywords, we found that the viral video has been in circulation on the internet at least since August this year, attributing it to various cities.

We found the same video uploaded on August 25, 2020, by Samayam Telugu on its official YouTube channel. The caption to the video reads, "Viral Video: Fishes inside House Due To Floods in Warangal".

Multiple other local media outlets from Telangana also attributed the video to Warangal in August.

According to various media reports, Warangal district in Telangana had experienced flash floods in the month of August this year.

According to an India Today report published on August 22, 2020, flash floods had resulted in the inundation of several residential areas of Warangal in August.

However, the same video has also been circulated as from Pakistan's Karachi in August this year. Though, we couldn't find any credible sources attributing the video to Pakistan.

However, it is clear that the viral video showing fishes inside a flooded house is on the internet at least since August 2020 and hence is not of the current Hyderabad rains.

In the wake of the current Hyderabad rains, several unrelated and old videos are shared on social media as recent visuals from Hyderabad.

AFWA had earlier debunked multiple such misleading videos.