A picture of a minor girl in bridal wear sitting beside a middle-aged man has gone viral on social media with communally-charged claims.

Several Facebook users have claimed that the 10-year-old girl was married off to a 40-year-old man named Shivnath Chaturvedi, who happens to be the cousin of her late father Ashok Chaturvedi.

The caption of the post in Hindi translates to, “Ten-year-old Anita was married to 40-year-old Shivnath Chaturvedi, cousin of her late father Ashok Chaturvedi. Such a shameless religion. Shame on the pandit who solicited the marriage. Shame on those people who feasted at the event. Shame on the faith that justifies child marriage.”

advertisement



Several other Facebook users claim the 10-year-old girl is Ameena, who was married off to a 40-year-old Muslim man, who is a cousin of her late father. Both claims are made by mostly Indian Facebook users.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral claims to be misleading. The incident is from Punjab province in Pakistan. The 10-year-old girl was sold off by her widowed mother to a 40-year-old man named Tariq Mehmood. Police had foiled the marriage and arrested the man.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

Using reverse image search, we found that several Pakistani Twitter handles had posted the image, condemning the incident.

Some NGOs related to social work in Pakistan have claimed this incident to be from Ahmedpur Sharqia in Punjab province.

Taking this as a clue, we searched the Internet using related Urdu keywords and came across several news websites and portals in Pakistan which had published this incident on August 18.

As per these news reports, Punjab police had foiled an attempted child marriage, reaching the venue at just the right time. The incident took place at Ram Kali area in Ahmedpur Sharqia in Punjab’s Bahawalpur district.

The 10-year-old girl, who had lost her father a few years ago, was sold off by her mother to his 40-year-old cousin named Tariq Mehmood. Police arrested the man and took the child into safe custody. As per reports, police were investigating the incident and searching for other people involved, who had fled the scene. The reports do not mention the identity of the minor or her religion.

Hence, the various communally-charged claims made on Facebook about the child marriage are misleading as the incident has no connection to India and took place in Pakistan.