More than 40 Palestinians were injured in clashes with Israeli police forces in the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound in Jerusalem on April 29.

The area has witnessed heightened tensions this year amid an overlap of religious holidays that have brought thousands of worshipers to Jerusalem’s Old City. While Muslims observed Ramadan, Jews marked Passover and Christians celebrated Easter.

In the backdrop of these developments, an image of a boy tightly hugging a sobbing baby has gone viral on social media. The infant is covered in dust while there is a tensed expression on the boy’s face.

advertisement

Many social media users claimed the image to be related to the recent clashes in Jerusalem. The image is being circulated with hashtags like ‘#FreePalestine’.

The archived version of this image can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this image is neither recent nor related to the Israel-Palestine conflict. Shot in the Syrian city of Aleppo, it dates back to 2014.

AFWA probe

A reverse search of the image took us to the original version of it on the website of the stock photography agency Alamy.

The information provided here with the image stated that it showed a boy holding his baby sister who was found alive under rubble following an air raid in Aleppo's Masaken Hanano. Activists said the airstrike was carried out by forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

It was clicked by photographer Hosam Katan on February 14, 2014.

NBC News and The New York Times had carried this image in their reports dated August 23, 2016, and February 14, 2014, respectively.

Hosam Katan is an Aleppo-born Syrian photojournalist. He had posted the viral picture on his Instagram page on February 14, 2022 alongside the caption, “‘A ROSE ON VALENTINE’S DAY’ 8 years ago I took this picture on the Valentine’s Day 14.02.2014 in #aleppo #syria”.

The image can also be seen on Katan’s website.

Thus, it is clear that an old image from Syria is being falsely linked with the recent clashes between Israel and Palestine.