Cyclone Tauktae has pounded the coastal areas of Maharashtra and Gujarat, uprooting trees and houses, and causing heavy rains and floods in its wake. Several videos are being circulated on social media as visuals related to the cyclonic storm.

Amid this, a video showing angry waves crashing on to the shore is being shared with the claim that it is a scene from the beach at Kunkeshwar village, located in the coastal Konkan region of Maharashtra's Sindhudurg district.

advertisement

TV9 Marathi also aired the same video as strong waves in Sindhudurg district.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Though the Arabian Sea is in turmoil, this is an old video from San Sebastián, a resort town on the Bay of Biscay in northern Spain.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, here and here.

AFWA probe

We did a reverse image search on the video and found similar visuals in a longer video uploaded by a Facebook user on May 3. According to this post, the video is from northern Spain. Multiple videos of high tides shot from the same location over the years as from Spain are available on YouTube.

We also found a photograph of high tides from the same location carried by stock image site Alamy. According to the description, the image is from Paseo Nuevo in San Sebastian.

Taking a cue from this, we searched for Paseo Nuevo beach and found the street view of the same location on Google Maps.

According to Google Maps and multiple other sites, the structure seen on the left side is Construccion Vacia, designed by poplar Spanish sculptor Jorge Oteiza. The island on the other side of the sculpture is Santa Clara Island in San Sebastián, Spain.

We also found mention of the waves at Paseo Nuevo on several blogs as one of the top places where one can find breaking waves.

While Sindhudurg is one of the districts in Maharashtra affected by Cyclone Tauktae, it is clear that the video in question is from Spain and not related to India.