Shehla Rashid, Former Vice-President, Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union on Sunday tweeted an image of Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga that shows him wearing a yellow T-shirt that reads "Mera PM Chor Hai (My PM is a thief)." The post has been retweeted more than 3000 times.

Senior Congress leader and Uttar Pradesh Congress Spokesperson Akhilesh Pratap Singh too shared this photo on Twitter, commenting that "now BJP workers are also calling Modi a thief."

Since it is unlikely that Bagga being a leader of BJP will wear a T-shirt that calls PM Modi a thief, India Today Fact Check team decided to find the truth.

To one Twitter user who asked if the image was real, Bagga replied, "No it shows opposition too wants Tajinder Bagga to counter Tajinder Bagga."

No it shows opposition too want Tajinder Bagga to Counter Tajinder Bagga https://t.co/3ZcW8NMNHb Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga (@TajinderBagga) September 22, 2018

Bagga told India Today, "The photo that has been shared by Shehla Rashid is a morphed image." He then shared the original image with India Today, where his T-shirt reads, "My PM works until AM".

Image shared by Bagga with India Today

The BJP leader is also the founder of a personalised T-shirts website. The website also shows the same yellow T-shirt with "My PM works until AM" written on it.

We also found that Bagga posted the same photo on Twitter with on April 30, 2018.

India Today found that the image has been morphed multiple times with different texts. One of them being, "Phir Dil Do Modi Ko."

According to a report by Indian Express, Bagga was trolled when he asked people to send their suggestions for BJP's 2019 election campaign with the hashtag "Phir Dil Do Modi Ko".

Bagga said that the image of yellow T-shirt reading "Phir Dil Do Modi Ko" was also a morphed one.

BJP supporters have also asked Delhi Police to file an FIR against Akhilesh Pratap Singh for his tweet.

India Today contacted Shehla Rashid, she said, "I think the photo is genuine. Bagga had put it up in 2013." However, she failed to share any evidence to substantiate her claim.

Akhilesh Pratap Singh told India Today that he saw the photo on the social media, so he thought about sharing it, but he confessed that he did not check the authenticity of the post.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: HAL's tweet contradicting defence minister is fake