At a time fear and uncertainly due to coronavirus is palpable in the air, an “advertisement” of a body bag has gone viral on social media. The purported ad showcases a body bag manufactured by the Italian luxury fashion brand “Prada”.

The 1.25-minute film shows a woman’s body being carried away in a body bag with a “Prada” logo on it. The woman had died after accidentally falling off a staircase. The tagline of the video says, “Prada Body Bag It’s the last bag you’ll ever need”.

advertisement

While some have found the ad cringe-worthy in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, others are just amused. Many have taken to social media claiming that “Prada” is now making bags for corpses.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is actually a spoof. The video was made four years back by a group of American comedians calling themselves “The Kloons”. Neither has “Prada” made the ad, nor is it manufacturing body bags.

The video, which has been shot like an ad campaign, is circulating on WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube. The archived versions can be seen here, here, and here.

The video has been shared widely on Facebook.

AFWA probe

We scanned through the YouTube channel of “The Kloons” and found that they had written about the idea and mentioned the list of people behind making this spoof video.

The caption of the video, posted on April 20, 2016, says, “Prada Body Bag It’s the last bag you’ll ever need. What will the coroner carry YOU away in when you die? And who cares cause you’ll be DEAD. Big thanks to everyone who helped us make this thing happen, we’ve been planning this one for a long time.”

The spoof video is their tongue-in-cheek reply to people’s obsession with brands. Fashion magazine “Cosmopolitan” reported in 2016 on the spoof with a headline “Prada released a bag for corpses?”

This four-year-old spoof video on Italian mega fashion brand “Prada” has resurfaced after Italy reported one of the highest numbers of cases and deaths for Covid-19. Till May 10 evening. Italy reported almost 2.2 lakh cases of coronavirus infections and over 30,500 deaths.