On 7th August 2019, a Facebook user named Bhakton ka RADAR posted a video. The caption of the video was “While millions of people in Kashmir are under military siege, Arnab Goswami says, “As a proud Indian, I am ready for the damage, kill them. Kill them in thousands”. Prime time journalists in india are demanding the blood of Kashmiris.

In this video, we can see Republic TV Prime Time Journalist Arnab Goswami in the midst of a news debate, where he can be heard saying that “Operation Elimination will start now. We have to eliminate all these people, these traitors, the brigade shouting slogans; do you think we did not give you a chance? Now we need to have a tough military option and I’m saying as a proud Indian, I am prepared for collateral damage.” This video was first shared by a Twitter handle “With Kashmir” with the description that while millions of people are under military siege in Kashmir, Arnab Goswami says “as a proud Indian, I am prepared for collateral damage. Just kill them kill them in thousands.”

Prime time journalists in India are for the blood of Kashmiris. #StandWithKashmir

Facebook Post Archive Video

After closely analysing the video, we discovered that this news debate video clip is of 28 second from the program “Sunday Show” and it is with reference to the debate Kashmir issue. At 7 seconds, the sound of the video shortens and rises again in 10 seconds. Also, Goswami’s comments end abruptly and seem incomplete in the debate. Looking at this video, it appears that this video has been edited.

We started investigating our debate using these keywords on Google “Will Pro-Azadi Gang Unite Against Pakistan? We also used #KashmirDebate” keywords as you can see in the caption of the video. As a result of the search we found a video broadcasted by Republic TV on 28th February 2019. In its heading it was mentioned “Will Pro-Azadi Gang Unite Against Pakistan? Exclusive Sunday debate with Arnab Goswami”

English Statement:“I am saying that we now need to have a tough military option and I’m saying as a proud Indian, I am prepared for collateral damage to take on terrorists within Jammu and Kashmir and their supporters because now operation elimination will start and we will have to eliminate all these people.”

Further in the debate, Arnab Goswami suggests that the only solution for Kashmir is that force and strong military action should be used. He also said that the only solution to the problem of the stone pelters is to collect them, pull their hair and beat them.

Currently due to this dispute, Republic TV issued a tweet from its official twitter handle and informed Twitter India about @withkashmir and said that this twitter account if operated by the ISI in Pakistan and it is spreading fake news against Republic TV. Republic channel launched a hastag #twittermustclarify after which Twitter account #withkashmir was suspended

#TwitterMustClarify | Pakistan's ISI and its sponsored handles have launched a fake-news war against @Republic. We have officially informed @TwitterIndia but for some strange reason they have not yet acted against the Pak-backed propaganda. The nation wants to know why pic.twitter.com/uEs9c4dlHo — Republic (@republic) August 7, 2019

Archive Link

Conclusion: After fact-checking, we found the above post is incorrect. This video is old and was aired after the Pulwama attack. Also, this video has been edited.