A bloody face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh led to the martyrdom of 20 Indian soldiers late on Monday night. Amid tensions along the Line of Actual Control, a picture of a number of security personnel lying jam-packed on the floor of a small room is going viral on Facebook.

The claim along with the picture says these are the bodies of 57 Indian soldiers who were martyred in the flare-up.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture is over one year old. The jawans seen in the picture were actually resting in between outdoor exercises at the BSF Academy in Tekanpur, Madhya Pradesh.

On June 17, Facebook Page Aasiya Zargar posted the image with the caption, "57 BSF Indian Soldiers are killed in Ladakh Yesterday Night". The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

To verify the claim along with the viral image, we ran a reverse search and found that it was already available on the Internet since last year. BSF had retweeted this image, which was originally tweeted by a journalist named Manish Prasad on February 10, 2019.

The original image was captioned, "This is how #Leisure time of 2/3 hrs is passed in outdoor #exercises of @BSF_India #commando academy in #Tekanpur. Highly motivated gaurdian of #FirstLineofDefence and #internal #security."

The picture was taken at the BSF Academy in Tekanpur, MP, in resting time between outdoor exercises. Also, the Indian Army has confirmed that 20 of its men, and not 57 as claimed in the viral post, were martyred in the flare-up with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh. The Chinese side has also suffered unconfirmed fatalities.

On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi warned that India wants peace but if provoked, it is capable of giving a fitting reply. He assured the nation that the loss of its soldiers would not be in vain.

ALSO READ | India-China border clash: Will it escalate? | India Today Insight

ALSO READ | Chinese Army agreed to disengagement, went back on its word: Govt sources on violent Ladakh face-off

ALSO WATCH | S Jaishankar speaks to China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi after LAC faceoff