Bharatiya Janata Party's National Spokesperson Sambit Patra, while addressing a gathering at the party's Delhi office earlier this month, claimed that the rate of rape in many states had decreased following the emphasis on toilet construction in villages by the current Narendra Modi-led government, reported the Press Trust of India.



Patra was outlining the achievements of eight years of the BJP government at the Centre when he said most rapes happened when women in rural areas used to go out to attend nature's call in the dark. "In many states, the rate of rape has come down because the prime minister gave women 'izzatghar' (toilet)." Patra was quoted as saying by PTI .

When FactChecker referred to data on rape cases and number of toilets built in rural areas, we found no correlation between the two.

In India, one rape or attempt to rape case was registered every 17 minutes in 2020, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The cases of rape and attempt to rape did dip by approximately 29% in five years — from 44,676 in 2016 to 31,787 in 2020 . Rape crimes (rape and attempt to rape under the Indian Penal Code) constituted less than 10% of all crimes against women in 2020. The NCRB hasn't released data for 2021 yet, so FactChecker used data for 2020.

Even then, there seems to be no direct correlation apparent between decrease in rape crimes, and the number of toilets constructed in any particular state.

Apart from Nagaland, four out of five states that registered the lowest rate of rape crimes in 2020 — Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu — have a comparatively lower rate of access to any sort of toilet facility than other states, showed an analysis of NCRB and National Family Health Survey-5 data .

Except Nagaland, all these four states ranked below 18 among 28 states, in terms of access to toilets. Bihar is actually the worst performer in terms of toilet accessibility in India but also has the third-lowest rate of rape crime (1.5 per lakh population) among all states.