Does IIT Kanpur professor and famous physicist HC Verma donate Rs one crore to Prime Minister relief fund and for charity? Thousands of social media users believe so, even as the claim went viral last year too and was debunked by the professor himself.



Facebook page 'Work For Unity' has shared an image of HC Verma, claiming that he receives Rs one crore as royalty every year for his book 'Concepts of Physics', which he donates to the PM relief fund and for charity.







India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be false.



The claim, made on August 13, has been shared more than 21,000 times till the filing of this story. The archived version of the post can be seen here.



THE CLAIM



The claim by 'Work For Unity' says, "Meet Prof HC Verma, he gets Rs 1 cr as royalty per year for his book 'Concepts of Physics' & he gives it to PM's relief fund and charity. He still drives an old scooter, provides financial aid to poor students."



This means there are three claims in the post - one, that the professor earns Rs 1 crore as royalty per year from 'Concepts of Physics', a popular Physics textbook for Classes 11 and 12; second, that he donates his royalty to the PM relief fund and charity; and third, that he still drives an old scooter.



FACT CHECK



AFWA has found that at least two of the three claims are not true.

advertisement

In order to know the reality behind the claims, AFWA did a simple Google search of keywords such as 'HC Verma', '1 crore', 'PM Relief Fund', etc. and found multiple articles by authentic news websites that revealed that the aforesaid claim is misleading. HC Verma himself had 'categorically' denied it.



Last year, the same claim did rounds on another social media platform, Twitter. The IIT Kanpur professor took to his Facebook page to deny the claim and put rumours to rest.



On April 13 last year, the professor wrote on his Facebook page, "Dear friends, I came to know about a Twitter post telling that I earn 1 crore of royalty and donate the whole money to PM relief fund. I wish I could do that. I wish to categorically deny the information. A scooter photo is also shown in the post. I never had a scooter of this colour and make. I am just one of you, a common man and a physics learner."



This statement by the professor made it clear that at least two claims - that he donated to PM relief fund and still drives a scooter - are not true. AFWA could not verify if HC Verma earns Rs 1 crore as royalty per year for his book.



When the same claim was viral on social media last year, it was debunked by several media organisations such as DNA and The Quint.