Earlier this week, almost two decades after they were overthrown, the Taliban seized Afghanistan’s capital Kabul and took full control of the country. These developments have once again brought to the fore discussions on women’s rights in Afghanistan under the new regime.

In this context, an image is circulating on social media purportedly showing three burqa-clad women walking through a road with their legs chained. A man walking ahead of them seem to be holding another end of the chain.

advertisement

One such claim along with the picture says, “1990’s Taliban Afghanistan — When women were dragged with shackles on their feet. There used to be 2/3 wives of a husband in every house, whose feet were tied with chains.”

Some other posts claim this is a recent image after the Taliban captured Afghanistan.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture is morphed. In the original image, the women are not chained.

However, it is also true that the Taliban are strongly against girls’ education and women taking up jobs or participating in public life. The Taliban want women to be fully covered and remain in their houses and be accompanied by a male companion in case they want to step outside. There are harsh punishments, including death, if the rules are not followed.

Tracing the viral image

We did a reverse search of the picture in circulation and found the original version on the cover page of an Arabic book, “Female infanticide: Between sacred texts and the masculine complex” published in 2014.

In this image, we can clearly see that there is no chain tied around the ankles of the women. A further search revealed that the original image has been in circulation on the Internet at least since 2006.

The earliest version of the original image was found on the photography site “Trek Earth”, published in 2006. According to this site, the image was shot by photographer Murat Duzyol in 2003 in Erbil, Iraq.

“I am a photojournalist living in Istanbul and taking pictures for 30 years. I took the said photo in 2003. The man was part of a condolence meeting for Iraqi civilians killed after a Friday prayer in Erbil. As people were returning to their homes, such a composition randomly appeared on the street. It was an instant snapshot and completely natural,” Murat told AFWA.

“The women obviously knew each other, but I’m not sure they knew the man. During the 2nd Gulf War, I went to Iraq a few times and took pictures as a journalist. Unfortunately, many of my photos have been manipulated. But this photo is mostly circulating on social media. I have warned many people about this many times. But the result did not change,” he added.

However, over the years, multiple articles have used the original image to describe gender roles in Afghanistan and how women are customised to walk a few inches behind their husbands.

A comparison between the viral image and its original version can be seen below.

The young women in miniskirts

Meanwhile, the image of the young women in miniskirts shared by users from 1960 was originally shot in 1972 in Kabul by photographer Laurence Brun.

Hence, it is clear that the image showing burqa-clad women is at least 18 years old and the chains have been digitally altered to the original click.