Following the death of Tabrez Ansari in the mob lynching incident that happened weeks ago in Jharkhand, social media is rife with various videos mostly with misinformation and unchecked claims.

A small video clip of people brandishing swords and sharp weapons is going viral both on Facebook and Twitter, where they can be heard, apparently giving slogan slamming Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh( RSS) in reference to Tabrez Ansari's murder.

advertisement

Twitter handle of "Sudarshan News" posted this video with their channel logo claiming that religious fanatics are giving slogan with open swords, signaling death threats to RSS and other Hindu organisations.

This tweet posted on July 2, 2019 has been tagged to Prime Minister's office ( PMO ) and Home Ministry.

India Today Anti Fake News War room ( AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim. The original video is of a Muharram procession of 2017 and devoid of any such slogan. The original audio has been tampered, while the slogan is overlaid on the viral video.

The 27 seconds viral video with Sudarshan news logo has two bold captions in Hindi saying " Chadda Chaddiwalon ko goli maron sal** ko" and " tabrez ke hatyaaro ko goli maron sal** ko" .

On twitter the " Sudarshan News" post has been retweeted more than 2700 times and liked by over 2800 people at the time of writing this article. The same content has also been posted by several other Twitter users.

This post is also viral on Facebook.

A few days back AFWA debunked a similar claim where we found the viral video with the misleading claim was actually of a Muharram procession.

This time also we looked for the Muharram videos on YouTube with the help of keyword search. We found the same viral video in the name of "Dehri on sone Muharram 2017" uploaded by YouTuber "Mia Bhai" on November 11, 2017.

This video has natural ambiance and without the audio of any slogan found in the viral video.

The longer version of this particular Muharram procession has been uploaded by several other users on YouTube in 2017, which can be seen here.

Dehri, also known as Dehri on Sone, is a metropolitan city in Rohtas district in the state of Bihar.

When we searched YouTube for that particular slogan heard in the viral video, we found another video with the same slogan uploaded on July 1, 2019.

Hence it is confirmed that the viral video is of a Muharram procession from 2017 which has no link with the protest march for Tabrez Ansari. The original ambiance audio has been tampered with and the slogan is laid over in the viral one.