A shocking video is doing the rounds on social media with the claim that the Indian government is planning to remove all Sikh soldiers currently serving in the Indian army.

In this blurry and shaky video of what looks like a meeting, some faces that are recognizable are of Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.

advertisement

In the video, somebody can be heard saying, "Punjabi ko nikal do, so that I never have to fear kitne log army me jate hain. Nobody in the rest of India talks as much shit about how much they contribute to India as much as Punjabis. For the last two years, it has become sickening. Jaise Maratha regiment nahi hai, jaise South Indian soldiers nahin hain, and ek baar ye Punjabis nikal jayein na, to it will come to light to how effective it they actually were. And I will tell you, koi difference nahi hoga. Ek-ek ko nikal do. Sare general, sare soldiers, you know, top level se bottom tak, har ek Punjabi ko nikal do pure army defence infrastructure se."

It is interesting to note that multiple Twitter handles with the names of girls have posted this video with similar captions.

For instance, one such handle wrote, "During Cabinet Committee Security Meeting Minister @ianuragthakur @DrSJaishankar Calls For Removal of #Sikhs From @adgpi #IndianArmy #IndiaStandsWithChanni v/s #BharatStandsWithModiJi"

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the visuals seen in the viral video are from a Cabinet Committee on Security meeting that was held on December 08, 2021, after the death of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu.

On the other hand, the audio heard in the video is from a discussion that happened on the social audio app Clubhouse.

It is noteworthy that this video has emerged after an alleged security breach happened during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent Punjab visit.

Origin of the video

We found that this video shows the Cabinet Committee on Security meeting that was held after CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife, and 11 others lost their lives in a chopper crash. This meeting was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, and NSA Ajit Doval were among the ones who attended the meeting.

How we traced it

advertisement

We found a comment by a Twitter user in which he specified that the video is related to a meeting that was held after the death of General Rawat.

Getting a clue from here, we found the actual video that was posted on the official YouTube channel of ANI on December 8, 2021. The same video was shared by other media outlets like The Tribune and The Times of India.

We compared the visuals of the viral video with this video and found many similarities between them. The colour and design of the clothes worn by the people in the video as well as the kind of interior are an exact match.

It is noteworthy that there is no audio in the original video, but just light background music. Clearly, the music in this video was removed and an unrelated audio was added to create confusion.

Origin of the audio

The audio heard in the viral video has been taken from a discussion that happened on the Clubhouse app.

A screen recording of this discussion had gone viral on social media recently. The audio in this recording is much clearer than the one in the viral video. Even some cuss words that can be heard in the original video have been removed.

advertisement

We also found that several people are claiming that OpIndia Editor-in-chief Nupur Sharma was also a part of this discussion.

Replying to such queries, Nupur said in one of her tweets that this viral clip is indeed from an old Clubhouse discussion. She also added that the suggestion to remove all Sikhs from defence was made by an anonymous handle.

PIB has also refuted the claim being made in this video.

A tweet referring to a viral video claim that in a #Cabinet Committee meeting on Security, there was a call for the removal of Sikhs from the Indian Army.#PIBFactCheck



The claim is #Fake

No such discussion/meeting has taken place pic.twitter.com/ESec0ALjr3— PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) January 7, 2022

Evidently, a manipulated video is being shared to establish that the government is planning to remove Sikhs from the army.