Bollywood legend Dilip Kumar breathed his last on July 7 in Mumbai at the age of 98. The death of the veteran actor, who was born in Peshawar in 1922 as Muhammad Yusuf Khan, was mourned by both India and Pakistan.

Now, the video of an old haveli is circulating on social media with the claim that it is the ancestral home of Dilip Kumar in Pakistan’s Peshawar. “Dilip Saab house in Peshawar, Pakistan,” reads text superimposed on the video.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This is actually ‘Kapoor Haveli’, Raj Kapoor’s ancestral house in Peshawar.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching keyframes from the viral clip, we found that videos and images of the same haveli were carried in several mainstream media reports as Raj Kapoor’s ancestral house in Peshawar, capital of the Pakistani province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

A comparison of stills from the viral video with PTI images of ‘Kapoor Haveli’ can be seen below.

According to a report by “The Indian Express”, in 2020, the provincial government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa had announced its decision to buy ‘Kapoor Haveli’, situated in Peshawar’s fabled Qissa Khwani Bazaar, along with the ancestral house of Dilip Kumar, which is also in the same locality; conserve them and turn them into museums.

‘Kapoor Haveli’ was built between 1918 and 1922 by Raj Kapoor’s grandfather Dewan Basheswarnath Kapoor.

Dilip Kumar’s ancestral home

On September 30, 2020, the official Twitter handle of Dilip Kumar retweeted a few images of his ancestral home in Peshawar posted by Pakistan journalist Shiraz Hassan.

Thank you for sharing this. Requesting all in #Peshawar to share photos of my ancestral house (if you’ve clicked the pic) and tag #DilipKumar https://t.co/bB4Xp4IrUB — Dilip Kumar (@TheDilipKumar) September 30, 2020

In his autobiography “The Substance and the Shadow” too, the actor had shared a photo of his ancestral haveli.

In 2015, when Dilip Kumar turned 92, several images of his ancestral home in shambles were carried by Pakistan newspaper “Dawn”.

In 2013, then Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had ordered the ministry of national heritage to take over the building and work on restoring it. In July 2014, the government declared the building a heritage monument, and the house has since been a protected structure under Pakistan’s Antiquity Act.

However, according to articles by “India Today” and Pakistan newspaper “The Express Tribune”, the 100-year-old haveli that was already in shambles collapsed in June 2017.

As per latest reports, the Pakistan government fixed the purchase price of Raj Kapoor’s 6.25-marla and Dilip Kumar’s four-marla houses for Rs 1.50 crore and Rs 80 lakh respectively, to convert them into museums.

advertisement

A video report by “The Quint” that shares photographs of both houses can be seen below.

Hence, it is clear that the haveli seen in the video in question is the ancestral house of Raj Kapoor and not Dilip Kumar.