On June 3, 2022, Kanpur (UP) witnessed heavy stone-pelting after a clash broke out between two groups over a BJP spokesperson’s allegedly insulting remarks about Prophet Mohammad. According to reports, 36 individuals have been detained and more than 1,000 are being held on suspicion of rioting.

Against this backdrop, a video is being widely shared on social media, claiming that Kanpur police are taking action against the rioters on the street at night.

The video is shared on Facebook with a Hindi caption: “आधी रात को कानपुर की गलियों से आती हुई उह, आह की आवाज़ को ही शास्त्रों में शुकुन कहा गया है UP पुलिस का कानपुर दंगाइयों पर कहर” (English translation: The sound of Uh.. Ah coming from the streets of Kanpur at midnight is called Shukun in the scriptures. UP police wreaking havoc on Kanpur rioters)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

Using the InVid Tool, we extracted keyframes from the viral video and performed a Reverse Image Search. This search directed us to several social media posts uploaded in April 2020 that carried the same viral video claiming that the video is from Indore and Telangana. This clearly means that the viral video is old and not related to recent Kanpur violence.

Taking a cue from this, we conducted a keyword search in Hindi and discovered many news items published on Hindi news portals that detailed the true narrative behind the video. According to these news reports, the Video of police ‘lathi-charge’ is from the Sri Lanka Mumbra area of Thane, Maharashtra.

According to a video news report, published by a Hindi news channel, the incident happened when followers of two local politicians clashed on March 27, 2020 in Sri Lanka area of Mumbra, Maharashtra. To disperse the throng and regain control of the situation, the police used batons on the protesters.

Thus, it is evident from the above information that an old video from Maharashtra is being falsely linked to recent violence in Kanpur.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news