The indecent has no relation with Uttar Pradesh. The incident took place in Pune, Maharashtra in 2019.

A woeful video of a JCB running over a cow is widely circulating on social media as an incident that took place in Uttar Pradesh. Users are requesting CM Yogi Adityanath to take immediate action on the culprits.

The caption of the video reads, “I will request honourable Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ji, whoever has run his bulldozer over this cow, take action on him as soon as possible and send him to jail immediately.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Lately, the state of UP has been facing many problems due to large number of stray cows wandering into farms and destroying crops. PM Modi in his campaign speech on February 20 this year had addressed this issue and assured that, ‘a new policy will be formulated to deal with the issue’.

Thus, the issue of stray cow was one of the key issues in the recently concluded elections. On the backdrop of BJP’s recent poll victory and Yogi Adityanath starting his new tenure as the UP Chief Minister, this video is getting a lot of traction on social media. However, is this video of a recent incident of a cow crushed by a bulldozer and importantly is this video from Uttar Pradesh? Let’s find the answers!

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google that led us to several new reports on this incident. According to a report published by the Daily Star UK on 21 November 2019, the incident took place in the Pune district of Maharashtra.

Mumbai Mirror reported that the incident took place in Indapur, Maharashtra. According to local villagers, the farmers could not afford to keep the aged bull and thus decided to kill it in a brutal manner. The Maharashtra Police has now booked two absconding persons in connection with the brutal killing of the bull.

According to News18, the incident had taken place in Pondwadi village in Indapur tehsil on October 27. “A case has been registered against absconding accused Rohit Atole and Bhausaheb Khartode under section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.” The official said, “The bull was bitten by a rabid dog and was agitated. It started creating havoc in the village.”

ABP Majha and News18 Lokmat also published a report on the same incident in 2019.

UP Police also tweeted a clarification on the viral video on 27 March 2022 stating that the video is not from Uttar Pradesh but took place in Pune, Maharashtra. They have also mentioned that the Moradabad Police has arrested one man for spreading fake news regarding the incident.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video on social media to be False. The video showing a bulldozer killing a cow is not from Uttar Pradesh. The incident took place in Pune district of Maharashtra in 2019. This video has nothing to do with Uttar Pradesh.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)