A screengrab from a newspaper has been going viral that states that from April 1, the Centre will offer loans at zero per cent under the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme.

The screengrab was shared along with captions that expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. One such post’s caption said in Hindi: “Honourable Prime Minister, we are grateful to you.”

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim to be misleading. No such announcement has been made by the union government.



Archived versions of posts with similar claims can be seen here and here.

AFWA PROBE

While investigating the claim, we first conducted a keyword search to find out whether the government had made any such announcements recently. We did not find a single news report or government press release that stated the government was offering an interest-free loan under the KCC scheme.

To understand the present interest structure of loans under the KCC scheme, we visited the website of the State Bank of India.

The SBI website stated that farmers could avail loans up to Rs 3 lakhs under the KCC scheme at an interest of seven per cent if the union government gave a subsidy of two per cent per annum on it. This meant that the actual interest rate was nine per cent per annum. The website was last updated on March 11, 2022, at the time of writing this.

According to news reports, under the KCC scheme, farmers could avail loans up to Rs. 3 lakhs in five years for an interest rate of only four per cent per annum.

However, for this to apply, farmers needed to repay their existing loans on time. If the farmer repaid the initial loan on time, he could get a rebate of three per cent. In this case, the farmer would need to pay interest at the rate of four per cent per annum only.

To further confirm the claim, we got in touch with an SBI spokesperson. “No, we have not received any such circular yet that states loans under KCC would be interest-free from April 1, 2022,” the SBI spokesperson told India Today.

Hence, we can conclude that the claim of this post is misleading. The union government has not made any announcement on providing interest-free loans under the KCC scheme.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena in Lucknow)