Samajwadi Party shared an image from Mumbai captured in 2011 as evidence for the progress of the youth during their government in Uttar Pradesh.

Amid the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, social media is brimming with misinformation related targeting one party or the another. The war between the parties is expected to intensify as the COVID-19 restrictions have forced political parties to adopt virtual rallies and social media campaigning. The social media account of Samajwadi Party posted a collage of two images claiming it shows the difference in progress made during the its government in the state of Uttar Pradesh and the current Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government.

The image on the top shows a bunch of people sitting in front of a computer and working while the image on the bottom shows clashes between police and people. The top image claims to show how the youth had jobs during the SP government before 2017 while the bottom image is claimed to shows the status of the youth of the state after 2017 during the BJP government tenure.

“The faces are clear” is the statement written along with the tweet made by Samajwadi Party Media’s account.

The image is being shared to take a dig at the status of the youth in the state, where earlier they were provided with progressive jobs while currently the same youth is having to face lathi charge by the police in Uttar Pradesh.

Tweet Link | Archive Link | Facebook Post

ALSO READ: Did Yogi Adityanath Threaten BJP That He Will Leave The Party If Not Made CM Again?

Fact Check-

We started our investigation a running a reverse image search for both the images and found that one of the image is from Mumbai while the other was captured during the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh.

Image 1:

Getty Images published the image on August 2011 showing software programmers working on computers as they develop applications at the MoFirst Solutions Pvt. office in Mumbai, India. A photographer named Kainaz Amaria captured the image.

The caption of image stated, “Software programmers work on computers as they develop applications at the MoFirst Solutions Pvt. office in Mumbai, India, on Saturday, Aug. 20, 2011. MoFirst is tapping India’s next wave in outsourcing, with thousands of programmers that charge a fraction of Silicon Valley prices to capitalize on demand for programs for Apple Inc.’s iPhone and devices running Google Inc.’s Android software. Photographer: Kainaz Amaria/Bloomberg via Getty Images.”

ALSO READ: No, Akhilesh Yadav did not wear shoes inside Parshuram temple. Here’s the Truth

Image 2:

The image was posted on the website of “Gaon Connection” on 3 November 2018 that stated that it shows the lathi charge on BTC aspirants in Lucknow. The report stated that the aspirants were protesting outside the Vidhan Bhawan in Lucknow. The police lathi charged them during their protest. The aspirants were protesting against alleged discrimination in the process of selection.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim circulating along with the viral image on social media to be Partly False. The image Samajwadi Party shared as progress in UP before 2017 during SP government’s tenure is NOT from Uttar Pradesh. The image is from Mumbai captured in 2011. However, the second image shared by them is indeed during the BJP government’s tenure in UP.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)