Social media has been in overdrive ever since the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan in a drug bust. The incident has divided netizens, with some coming out in support of the megastar, while others calling for his boycott.

Amid this, a collage of two images is going viral with the claim that while 'bhakts' on Twitter have called for SRK's boycott, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey himself is with the superstar at Mannat.

advertisement

While one image shows King Khan's residence in Mumbai, the other shows SRK and Dorsey in a meditative position. Superimposed on the collage is a tweet purportedly written by Dorsey and addressed to Khan. It says, "knock-knock".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that both Dorsey's tweet and his picture with SRK are old and not related to the events surrounding Aryan Khan's arrest. Dorsey visited SRK at Mannat on November 14, 2018, and the picture was tweeted by the superstar after the meeting.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

When Jack met SRK

Using advanced Twitter search, we found that Dorsey posted the "knock-knock" tweet along with a picture of Mannat on November 14, 2018.

With the help of keyword search, we found that Dorsey met SRK on the same day at the latter's residence in Mumbai. As per media reports, in November 2018, the Twitter CEO visited India and met important personalities such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rahul Gandhi and the Dalai Lama. He then flew to Mumbai to meet a few celebrities. His first meeting was with SRK at Mannat.

Before the meeting, the duo cracked jokes on Twitter. When Dorsey asked SRK whether he is "up", the megastar replied: Up and Ready. And shockingly, on time...if anybody has warned u about my tardiness they r just spreading 'fake news...'

Later, SRK tweeted about their meeting and posted their photo in a meditative posture on November 15, 2018.

We could not find any tweet or comment by Dorsey on Aryan Khan's arrest. Hence, it is clear that some netizens have made a misleading claim about Dorsey visiting SRK recently, linking it to calls for the megastar's boycott on Twitter.