Is there any truth to the claim that Congress chief Rahul Gandhi was devoid of manners and sat down as he handed over his nomination form at the Amethi collectorate?

Well, social media users shared a collage of two pictures - one of Rahul Gandhi handing over his nomination form and the other of BJP president Amit Shah doing the same for the forthcoming election in their respective constituencies.

advertisement

Social media users have called out the difference between the two in terms of the humility and manners that the two showed.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be false. Rahul Gandhi was standing all along when the nomination papers were filed.

A photo has been uploaded by various Facebook pages like "We Want Chowkidar" that claim there was a difference in the way the two leaders handed over the filled nomination forms.

One photo in the collage showed BJP president Amit Shah standing as he handed over his nomination paper to the concerned officer. In the other photo, Rahul Gandhi is flanked by his mother Sonia Gandhi and it seems he is not standing.

Facebook page 'We Want Chowkidar' in its post said, "President of both parties submitting nomination form, see the difference."

'We Want Chowkidar' Facebook page, which is followed by 25,831 users, on April 11 uploaded the post with the claim. Till the time this story was filed, the post was shared by over 1200 users. Various Facebook users commented about Gandhi's lack of manners.

Rahul Gandhi has filed his nomination from two places, Amethi and Wayanad. India Today AFWA did a reverse search and found that this particular picture of Rahul Gandhi filing his nomination was from Amethi which he had filed on April 10.

The photo and news about it can be read here.

We searched for more pictures and videos of Rahul Gandhi filing his nomination and found a video which shows that during the process of filing his nomination papers, Rahul Gandhi and his family members continued to stand as the concerned officer's seat was on a dias above them.

In this video, officials who are seen in the viral post can be seen sitting on the dias as well.

It was right here that BJP leader Smriti Irani, who is contesting against Rahul Gandhi from Amethi, filed her nomination papers on April 11. News about her filing nomination can be read here.

In the picture that accompanies the article, Smriti Irani can be seen standing in front of the same dias with the same officer in picture, which was exactly the same way Rahul Gandhi had been standing the previous day.

Another picture of Rahul Gandhi handing over his nomination form in Wayanad to the concerned official can be seen here, where the Congress chief can be seen standing out of courtesy as he handed over his nomination documents to the official.