A set of two pictures of a stunning house in a forest is being circulated on social media as Russian President Vladimir Putin’s residence.

“Russian President Vladimir Putin’s house in Sochi, Russia,” reads the caption of one such Facebook post.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the pictures to be misleading. The structure seen in the pictures is a concept design by Russian architect Roman Vlasov, and not a real house.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Using Google reverse image search, we found the same pictures carried in several posts on the Instagram page of Roman Vlasov. The pictures were first posted by the architect on January 25, 2021.

The caption says, “PUTIN HOUSE or a story about what his villa might look like”. In his post, Vlasov has also used hashtags such as #design and #concept, thus indicating that the building is not real.

In another post on March 28, he also wrote that the creation can be purchased as a non-fungible token (NFT). In this post he has tagged “withfoundation”, an online platform to “create, explore and collect digital art NFTs”.

NFT is a unit of data on a digital ledger where each NFT can represent a unique digital item. NFTs can represent digital files such as art, audio, videos, items in video games and other forms of creative work.

A further search on social media revealed that some verified Twitter handles have also clarified that the pictures are a 3D concept by Vlasov. One such tweet by American journalist Yashar Ali can be seen below.

This is not an actual home.



It’s a concept design by Vlasov based on what he thinks Putin’s home would look like. https://t.co/sr1UkTkoYp — Yashar Ali (@yashar) April 5, 2021

Designboom, an online magazine for architecture, has also featured the viral pictures as an envisionment of Vlasov.

On January 19, 2021, Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny had released drone footages of a purported billion-dollar mansion, alleging it was secretly built by Putin using illicit funds, near Russia’s Black Sea. However, the viral pictures are not similar to the ones shared by Navalny.

The video shared by Navalny can be seen below.

Hence, it is clear that the pictures being circulated are only a concept design by Russian architect Roman Vlasov, and not real.