The Covid-19 pandemic, along with disrupting normal life, has led to the postponement of several global sporting events, including the Olympics, scheduled to be held in Tokyo this year. In this context, a video showing colourful and beautifully synchronised firew orks lighting up the sky in wonderful patterns is being widely shared on social media.

It is being said that these fireworks were initially supposed to be displayed during the opening ceremony of the Tokyo Olympics 2020. But after it was postponed till next year, they were displayed under Mount Fuji in Japan as the fireworks could not be stored for a long time.

advertisement

The caption along with the video says, “Tokyo Olympic FIreworks. WOW! This is AWESOME! The fireworks were prepared in Tokyo for the opening ceremony of this year's Olympic Games, because COVID-19 could not open the Olympic Games, but the fireworks and firecrackers could not be stored until 2021, so the fireworks of the Olympic Games were displayed at this time. Please enjoy the Olympic fireworks set off under the beautiful Mount Fuji.”

WATCH THE VIDEO HERE

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The video being shared is old and was created digitally. Some fireworks, however, were reported in parts of Japan to mark a year before the Olympics.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. A number of users on Facebook have shared the same claim as can be seen here, here and here.

The claim is viral on Twitter as well. Some such claims can be here (https://twitter.com/ lawrencebing/status/ 1294138463923535873) and here (https://twitter.com/ Welikumbura/status/ 1294292682206900225).

“Gulf News” and “MSN” websites had published articles based on this claim.

AFWA probe

We noticed that in the comment section of one such post, some people raised questions about the authenticity of this video.

When we reverse-searched the keyframes of the viral video using the InVID tool, we found that it was shared in 2015 on a YouTube channel. It was shared with the caption, “FWsim Mount Fuji Synchronized Fireworks Show2”.

We found that Fwsim is a website where anybody can create fireworks display videos of their choice.

On YouTube, there are a lot of videos created with this method.

However, we also found an article by “The Japan Times” which states that on July 24, fireworks were set off at different places in the country to mark a year before the Olympics.

“Boomlive” had also debunked this claim earlier.

Thus, it can be concluded that though fireworks were set off in Japan in July, the viral video being shared in this context is neither recent nor does it show actual fireworks. It was created using a simulation website.