A picture of a woman in a fancy wardrobe, with some others seen standing in the background, has gone viral on social media with the claim that these are students of Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) protesting against Hindu women wearing saree and sindoor.

Claiming that this protest was carried out as part of a demonstration against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), many social media users are questioning why such a movement was targeting Hindu culture.

advertisement

Several Facebook () and Twitter users have shared the picture with similar claims. A long Facebook post in Hindi associated the woman in the viral image with JNU and called such "Leftist ideology" a "mental perversion".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture was taken in 2019 at a Pride parade in Kolkata. The woman is a visual artist and activist named Panchali Kar, who never studied in JNU. But though Pride parades primarily celebrate the LGBTQIA+ community, anti-CAA slogans were raised at this march.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, here and here.

Not a JNU event

Using reverse image search, we found the viral picture in an article on Bengali news portal "Khas Khabar, where the woman has been identified as Panchali Kar, a visual artist known for her controversial Facebook posts and images.

We found the viral image was posted on Panchali's Facebook page on December 30, 2019. The caption of the post reads, "Pride, 2019." The location was Baghbazar Street in Kolkata.

There is not a single mention of JNU in Panchali's entire Facebook profile. When India Today reached out to her, she said, "I have friends from JNU, but I personally have zero connection with JNU as an institution." She said the viral picture is from the Kolkata Pride Walk of 2019.

As per some web portals that had covered the event extensively, this is an annual event for the LGBTQIA+ community, which took place in Kolkata on December 29, 2019. Panchali took part in the event.

Though Pride parades primarily celebrate the LGBTQIA+ way of life, their sexual preferences, achievements, CAA and NRC also found a place in the 2019 event.

"At the 2019 Pride walk, we did raise slogans against NRC and CAA, because, why not? This was and still is a major crisis. But claiming that this picture is from an anti-CAA rally is hilarious," Panchali said, adding that this had happened with her earlier as well, when her pictures were downloaded and used in an incorrect context.

Hence, it is clear that the claim along with the picture that it is a protest by JNU students against Hindu culture and CAA is misleading.