While addressing a rally in Jhabua on Monday, Congress president Rahul Gandhi said that the serving Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's son was named in the Panama Papers.

Gandhi was on a two-day tour in poll-bound Madhya Pradesh.

India Today Fact Check found that it was not Shivraj Singh's son but allegedly, Chattisgarh CM, Raman Singh's son whose name surfaced in the Panama Papers.

advertisement

The Congress president was addressing a rally at Jhabua as part of the party's Sankalp Yatra campaign in the state.

Slamming Madhya Pradesh CM, Gandhi said, "Shivraj Chouhan jiMamaji...udher Chowkidar...Idher mamaji...Mamaji kehte hai...Acha sabse pehle...Mamaji ke jo bete hai...Panama papers main unka naam nikalta hai...Nawaz Sharif ka naam nikalta hai...Pakistan jaise desh main usko jail main daal dete hai...Magar yahah CM ka beta uska naam Panama papers main nikalta hai to koi karavi nahi hoti." (Shivraj Singh, also known as Mamaji, his son has been named in the Panama papers. Former Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was named in also named and he was ousted from the country. But here no action has been taken place as of now).

According to media reports, Rahul Gandhi in August this year had targeted Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh in Raipur because of "alleged involvement of his son and BJP MP Abhishek Singh in Panama gate".

When the name of former Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif appeared in Panama papers, he was convicted in it. In Chhattisgarh when the name of your CM's son comes in Panama papers, investigation doesn't even begin. This is BJP-NDA's 'chowkidari': Rahul Gandhi in Raipur pic.twitter.com/zub4cjCIXN ANI (@ANI) August 10, 2018

On April 07, 2016, Congress came out with a press release giving details of ICIJ ( International Consortium of Investigative Journalists) reports on Panama papers.

Congress has repeatedly raised the issue demanding an investigation. This was reported by the national dailies.

Going through the ICIJ papers, India Today Fact Check Team found that the report mentioned the name of Abhishak Singh in its offshore leaks database.

'Panama Paper Leaks' was first reported in 2016 where 500 Indians were named in the documents of Mossack Fonseca - a Panama-based law firm known for their services in incorporating firms in offshore jurisdictions. A German daily obtained the details from an unnamed source and later shared it with ICIJ.

Former Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif whose name cropped up in Panama papers was ousted by the Pakistan Supreme Court and was sentenced to 10 years in jail.

While the Indian National Congress has always been attacking the Chhattisgarh CM for the alleged mention of his son's name in the Panama Papers, India Today Fact Check finds that the party president has goofed up and used Shivraj Singh Chouhan's name in place of Raman Singh.

advertisement

UPDATE | The India Today Fact Check team was the first to point out this blooper. A day after this story was published, Rahul Gandhi admitted to his goof-up and issued a clarification, saying, "there are so many scams in Madhya Pradesh and other BJP-ruled states that I got confused."

(Correction: A previous version of the story mentioned the name of the individual listed in the ICIJ leaks as Abhishek Singh. The error has been corrected as Abhishak Singh)

(READ | Too many scams under BJP, got confused: Rahul on linking Shivraj son to Panama Papers)