The assassination of Punjabi singer and Congress leader Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu, better known as Sidhu Moose Wala, has shocked the nation. He was shot multiple times in the Jawaharke village of the Mansa district in Punjab on May 29.

Amid fans expressing shock and grief on social media, a video of an interview featuring the Punjabi singer was shared widely with the claim that this was Moose Wala’s final interview before his death. In the video, actor Sonam Bajwa spoke to Moose Wala about his struggles in the music industry.

advertisement

But was this his “last interview”? The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the video was more than a year old and was definitely not the last interview the 28-year-old musician gave.

AFWA Probe

A quick search led us to the original video of the interview from March 2021 on Zee5’s website. The 42-minute long interview was from a talk show “Dil Diyan Gallan” hosted by Bajwa. In it, Bajwa and Moose Wala discussed his life, career, and music. He also addressed controversies surrounding him.

The clip that is now going viral was taken from a promo video for this episode of the show that we found on the Zee Punjabi YouTube channel.

This interview with Bajwa was widely reported by many news outlets. Reportedly, it was his first TV interview.

Definitely not the last interview

In the time since the now-viral interview, Moose Wala gave several others. In fact, we found two recent interviews that took place just days before his assassination.

His interview with On Air was published on May 26. And the one with Lok Opinion was published on May 30, the day after his death. The video's YouTube title mentions that it was recorded a day before the tragedy, on May 28.

Moose Wala lost to Aam Aadmi Party's Dr. Vijay Singla from the Mansa constituency in the recent assembly elections in Punjab. In the Lok Opinion interview, the singer said he wouldn’t be contesting elections again.

Thus, we conclude that the viral clip of Sonam Bajwa interviewing Sidhu Moose Wala was not his “last interview”. He recorded interviews with news channels just days before his death.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal)