Bihar is currently battling the twin crises of Covid-19 and floods. More than 50 lakh people have been affected by floods in 14 districts of the state. With elections in Bihar scheduled later this year, the opposition is losing no opportunity to hit out at the Nitish Kumar government over alleged inefficiency in handling the crises.

The verified Facebook page of Bihar Congress posted an image of a woman, wading through a waterlogged street, along with a caption in Hindi which translates to, “Nitish Kumar’s good governance is floating in water. Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur, Bihar Sharif and Patna were chosen to be smart cities but they are still troubled by water-logging after rains.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the post to be misleading. Though floods have wreaked havoc in Bihar, the image posted by Bihar Congress was taken when Cyclone Amphan struck West Bengal in May.

The verified Twitter handle of Bihar Congress has shared the same post, and so did many social media users. The archived versions can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching the image, we found it in an article by “GISuser” published on June 18. The caption of the image reads, “flooding caused by super-cyclone Amphan in Kolkata last month”.

We also found a similar picture in stock photography agency “Alamy”. This image was taken on May 21 by photographer Roop Dey from Kolkata. The caption of the image says, “Flooded city roads with vehicles, pedestrians and uprooted trees after severe cyclonic storm “Amphan” strike at West Bengal, India.”

We also found that the white car on the right side of the road has a West Bengal registration number.

Amphan was a deadly tropical cyclone that caused widespread damage in eastern India, especially in West Bengal, and Bangladesh in May. The cyclone killed around 100 people in Bengal.

It is clear that though Bihar is battling floods, the viral picture of a woman walking through a waterlogged street was taken in Kolkata during Cyclone Amphan.