Spread the truth:

A photo of Aditya Thackeray with a girl is viral on Facebook and Twitter. In the picture he can be seen driving while the girl on the passengers seat is alleged to be the actress Rhea Chakraborty. This photo along with the allegation below is spreading like wild-fire right now.

Viral – “जब उद्धव ठाकरे का बेटा #सुशान्त_सिंह की गर्ल फ्रेंड #रिया_चक्रवर्ती के साथ घुम रहा है तब कहा से सुशांत सिंह की हत्या की #CBI जांच होगी“

Translation: “When son of Uddhav Thackrey is roaming with girlfriend of Sushant SIngh, then how can CBI investigate Sushant Singh’s murder”

Sushant Singh Rajput’s death has shook the nation. Since the demise of the Bollywood star a humongous amount of claims pertaining to his death are generating buzz on social media. Sushant’s girlfriend actress Rhea Chakraborty is accused of conspiring his death. The court shall decide the legitimacy of these numerous claims and rumors.

Facebook

A post by Rohit Sardana Fans club claimed that Rhea Chakraborty has close relations with Aditya Thackeray which is the reason Maharashtra government and Udhav Thackeray are not handing over the case to CBI. This post got 2 thousand likes and nearly 3 thousand shares on facebook.

http://archive.is/cNWn6

Twitter

The same picture with netizens demanding CBI inquiry as well as the arrest of Rhea Chakraborty is being shared on Twitter. The following tweet by a twitter handle Ankita Dave currently has got the maximum no. of retweets with over 10k likes and 4600+ retweets.

http://archive.is/CsGIH

A tweet sharing the same picture by account of Umanand Mishra accusing the state govt. of inaction. This tweet also got nearly 4 thousand retweets which are increasing every hour.

http://archive.is/98VG6

A fake twitter handle by the name of Arnab goswami also got above 3k tweets

Bhavesh K Pandey who’s twitter profile claimed that he is affiliated with BJP and RSS also shared the picture with identical claim.

We found several other accounts that shared the picture on twitter which you can find at the end of this article.

Truth

The actress with Aditya Thackeray is Disha Patani and not Rhea Chakraborty.

The above screenshot is from article published by Pinkvilla

The above screensho is from an article published by Times of India.

The alleged photo is from early June last year, when Aditya Thackeray and Disha Patani were spotted together going on a lunch. A picture from that news report is now going viral under the claim that Aditya Thackeray and Rhea Chakraborty are close. The photo is being shared with wrong captions and false claims.

Below are links to all tweets we found which make allegations and false claims without verifying the picture.

Aditya Thakrey With Rhea Chakrworty , Aditya thakrey has some connection this case , mumbai police and maharastra gov hiding it .#UddhavResignOrCBI4SSR pic.twitter.com/Er91aILJb1 — A fan of Kangana Ranaut🙏🙏 (@KanganaKi) August 1, 2020

Every thing is crystal clear , Aditya Thakrey With Rhea Chakrworty , Aditya thakrey has some connection this case , mumbai police and maharastra gov hiding it ….#UddhavResignOrCBI4SSR pic.twitter.com/6DVRDnb9Th — Sajan (@Sajan_golu_k) August 1, 2020

Shame on cm Mumbai pic.twitter.com/K0sAKqcfDt — Rtkvikas (@Rtkvikas1) August 1, 2020

Folllow Smhoaxslayer on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram for more such fact-check.

Related