All kinds of fake news are going viral on social media for communal polarization in the assembly elections of Uttar Pradesh. In this fake news, things are written in such a way that spread hatred between different sects. Further, this news influence any community or sect.The whole country celebrated Republic Day on 26 January. Tableau of different states were taken out in the parade on Rajpath. The cultures and civilizations of the states are displayed in the tableaux.

However, social media users are making comparisons between the previous Akhilesh government and the present Yogi government by making a collage of two photos on social media regarding the tableau of Uttar Pradesh.

Moreover, in this viral collage, it is seen that there is a tomb or a dargah in a photo. An effigy looking like a Muslim is shown on the front, asking for prayers. On the other hand, an effigy of a sage Mahatma is seen in the second photo. Social media users are claiming that the tableau containing the dargah or the tomb belongs to the Akhilesh government, while the tableau with the sage Mahatma belongs to the Yogi government.

A user named Swaraj Bharat wrote – “During the socialist rule, Deoband was presented on the Rajpath as the tableau of Uttar Pradesh. The Deoband which represents the Hanafi ideology of Saudi Arabia, Akhilesh Yadav kept presenting that Hanafi ideology as the ideology of Uttar Pradesh on the Rajpath. On the other hand, see what was the tableau of Uttar Pradesh on the Rajpath in Yogiraj on Republic Day. All we want is that this change should continue, now again jihadi people should not come to power in UP.

This collage has been posted by multiple accounts on Facebook with the same claims.

Fact Check

Firstly, our team tried to know the truth of the Muslim photo. On reverse image search of this photo on Google, we found an article by News18, which was published on 26 February 2015. According to this report, this tableau is not from UP but Bihar. Above all, “A tableau from the state of Bihar shows a Muslim man praying. The Sufi temple of Maner in Patna was depicted in the tableau of Bihar, which is better known for its Buddhist pilgrimage sites. As the melody of Amir Khusrau’s Sufi verse,’ Chhap Tilak Sab Chhini Re ‘ played in the background. The float showed the tomb of the 17th-century saint Makhdoom Shah Daulat.”

Hence, this fact check proves that this tableau is not from UP but Bihar. Let us also tell our readers that at the time when this tableau was displayed, the BJP-led NDA government in Bihar was headed by Nitish Kumar, who is still the CM of Bihar in the NDA alliance.

Meanwhile, on reverse-searching the second photo, we found a link to Dainik Bhaskar’s news. According to this news, the tableau of the Ram temple model of Ayodhya was taken out in the parade held on Rajpath on Republic Day 2021 and it also got first place.

Earlier in 2021, the collage of these two photos was viral and presented comparatively between Akhilesh Yadav and Yogi Adityanath. Even at that time, the tableau of Bihar was described as that of UP, while calling Akhilesh Yadav a pro-Muslim. This collage was termed as misleading and false by all the fact-checking websites.

Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput Dead But Trending Everyday On Twitter

Conclusion

Many facts come out from the fact check-

1- The tableau looking like a Muslim belonged to the Nitish government, which was shown on the Rajpath in 2011. BJP has an alliance with Nitish. It has nothing to do with Akhilesh Yadav’s SP government.

2- The second photo is from UP itself, in which the Ram temple of Ayodhya has been shown. It was introduced by the UP government.

3- The tableau of the second photo is not of Republic Day this year but Republic Day of 2021.