The image has no relation with the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Elections. Image shows BJP leader Kailash Meghwal whom farmer in Rajasthan allegedly attacked in 2021.

As the election dates for Uttar Pradesh approach closer, social media platforms are witnessing more and more misleading and false content. In this series, an image showing a man with torn clothes, accompanied by a police officer is widely circulating on social media. Users claim that the man is a BJP leader who was beaten up in Uttar Pradesh by the localites when he went there for campaigning.

The caption of the viral post states, “The public beat up a BJP leader in Uttar Pradesh who had gone to ask for votes”

You can read all the Uttar Pradesh Election related fact checks on our website here.

Facebook Post

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a Google reverse image search whose results led us to the image published by Aaj Tak on 31 July 2021.The headline of the report states that the image shows BJP leader Kailash Meghwal who was attacked by farmers in Sriganganagar, Rajasthan. Police has registered an FIR against 30 people in this case. The caption of the image mentioned, “People misbehaved with BJP leader Kailash Meghwal”.

According to the news report, BJP’s Scheduled Caste Morcha’s state president Kailash Meghwal was assaulted by farmers, protesting against the three agricultural laws passed by the Parliament in 2020 in Sriganganagar and tore his clothes. The farmers were agitating against all the three agricultural laws at Ganga Crossroads. After some time a scuffle broke out between the BJP leader and the farmers. It is alleged that some people tore the clothes of BJP leader and state president of the party’s SC Morcha Kailash Meghwal and beat him up. BJP leaders raised question marks on the Ashok Gehlot government of the state and targeted the law and order situation.

We found a video footage of this incident published by TV9 Bharatvarsh, which stated that farmers protested against BJP’s program in Rajasthan, and allegedly tore clothes and manhandled BJP leader Kailash Meghwal.

According to a report published by NDTV on 31 July 2021, some farmers allegedly manhandled a BJP leader and tore his clothes in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar. ‘The incident took place at Ganga Singh Chowk in Sri Ganganagar where some farmers gathered during the BJP’s sit-in over the law and order, and water for irrigation.’ Police had to use mild force to disperse the farmers.

After an agitation by farmers for more than a year, the Central Government was forced to repeal all the three farm laws last year. The farmers had gathered on the borders of Delhi and it had become the epicentre of the movement. However, the agitation was visible in many parts of the country.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the image to be false. The image does not show a BJP leader beaten up in Uttar Pradesh after he went to ask for votes. The image dates back to July 2021 when few farmers protesting against the farm laws allegedly manhandles BJP leader Kailash Meghwal. It is clear that the image is being shared out of content to mislead the general public by falsely associating this image with UP.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)