A video of a man threatening to kill an electric supply company employee is viral on social media with the claim that the incident took place in India.

The man, who identifies himself as Mufti Ata ur Rehman Swati, can be seen threatening the employee who had come to fix the meter issue but was not allowed to do his job by Swati. “Either I’ll kill or die,” he can be seen declaring in the video.

advertisement

One such post can be seen below.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. This video is from Pakistan’s Karachi and is more than a year old.

AFWA probe

We did a reverse image search of the keyframes of the video on Yandex and found the same video uploaded on the official Twitter handle of K-Electric Ltd, a Karachi-based electric supply company, on July 27, 2020. The tweet explains how the man was caught red-handed for electricity theft.

With the help of appropriate keywords in Urdu and English, we also found the same video reports and screenshots of it carried by Pakistan-based media outlets and social media handles in 2020.





The official Facebook page of ‘Army News’ channel in Pakistan also uploaded the video on August 28, 2020.

AFWA also spoke to Tauseef Razi Mallick, a Karachi-based journalist, who confirmed to us that the video is indeed from Karachi, and it was about a drive against illegal electricity connections by K-Electric.

Tauseef also noted that at the beginning of the video the official says “NEPRA ki taraf se order hai(NEPRA has ordered)”. National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) is a federal body in Pakistan established for transparent and judicious economic regulation.

In the video in question, the man identifies himself as Mufti Ata ur Rehman Swati. Tauseef explained that Swati is a common surname in Pakistan and refers to people hailing from Swat District, the mountainous region in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.

It is hence clear that the video in question is from Pakistan, not India and is at least a year old.

Ever since the Taliban took over Afghanistan, Indian social media is flooded with communally charged posts, particularly against the Muslim community. All such communal claims debunked by AFWA can be seen here.