Did Prime Minister Narendra Modi possess a digital camera and use email way back in 1988? Since the time he said this in a TV interview on Saturday, a big debate has been raging on social media about the veracity of this claim.



Modi was giving an interview to 'News Nation' when he made the claim. Modi said in Hindi: "I first used a digital camera, probably in 1987 or 1988 and very few had emails at that time In Viramgam tehsil, there was a rally of Advani ji so I had taken a photograph of him using that digital camera that time digital cameras were this big (movement of hands) I had one I had taken the photo and transmitted it to Delhi and the next day the coloured photo got published so Advani ji was surprised, how come the coloured photo got published the very next day in Delhi!"



Viramgam, which the PM referred to, is a tehsil in Ahmedabad district of Gujarat.

advertisement

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Modi's claim regarding the use of digital camera and email in 1988 cannot be substantiated with credible facts.



In 1988, the Internet in India was at a very nascent stage and its use was limited only to experts and scientists. Also, it is very unlikely that he would have used a digital camera at that time. The reason: the first digital camera was launched in 1990 in the United States.



Many people, including Congress' social media and IT cell head Divya Spandana, made sarcastic comments against the PM for his claim.

The question is even if he did have an email id in 1988 when the rest of the world didn’t, who was he sending emails to? ET? https://t.co/6akUH0nSa6 Divya Spandana/Ramya (@divyaspandana) May 12, 2019





In 1988, even in the developed west, email was available to a few academics and scientists but Modi somehow used it in 1988 in India before it was officially introduced to the rest of us in 1995. https://t.co/cq3nhRLEQJ Rupa Subramanya (@rupasubramanya) May 12, 2019



Narendra Modi joined the BJP in 1987. His first big responsibility was to campaign for that year's civic polls in Ahmedabad.



India's Internet history

Internet access for the public in India officially began on August 15, 1995, by Videsh Sanchar Nigam Limited (VSNL) after remaining in research and testing stage for about two decades.



Dr Srinivasan Ramani, who played a significant role in creating the Education Research Network (ERNET) in 1986 - the precursor to the Internet in India, documented those early days in a chapter of the book "Netch@kra" co-authored by Madanmohan Rao and Osama Manzar. A detailed article about this can be read here, which was published by News 18 website in 2015.



The ERNET network, which was the initial form of the Internet, was only made available to educational and research communities in 1986. According to this article, in 1987, IIT-Madras and IIT-Delhi were connected through ERNET dial-up link. The Press Trust of India (PTI) was also part of this research and development project. We could not independently verify if this facility was also available in PTI office in Ahmedabad at that time and if Modi had access to this facility.



Even if any other institution in Ahmedabad would have had access to ERNET, it is unlikely that it would be available to a politician for sending a photograph of a political rally. It looks even more difficult considering the fact that Gujarat had a Congress government at that time.



History of digital camera

advertisement

According to technology website Mashable, Kodak DSC 100 was the first true commercially available digital camera. It was launched in 1991. But among the initial customers were mostly well-heeled photo-journalists and the price was more than $10,000.

It is not convincing enough that in 1988, a young struggling politician in India would have a digital camera when it was still in a developmental state.