Pakistan's Director-General of Inter-Services Public Relations, Asif Ghafoor tweeted a video of retired Indian Air Force (IAF) Air Marshal, Denzil Keelor with the footage of Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman's clip in the inset. Asif Ghafoor claimed that the war veteran was talking about the "failure of India" during Balakot airstrikes earlier this year.

The IAF had carried out airstrikes on a terrorist base in Pakistan's Balakot on February 26, 2019.

advertisement Admission of Indian failure and losses on 27 February 2019 by a well decorated Indian Airforce veteran Air Marshal Denzil Keelor.#Surprise pic.twitter.com/uTeErbucCl Asif Ghafoor (@peaceforchange) July 28, 2019



India Today TV's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is doctored. The original video was recorded in the year 2015, where Denzil Keelor talked about the wars of 1962 and 1965.

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

Asif Ghafoor tweeted the video with the caption: "Admission of Indian failure and losses on 27 February 2019 by a well-decorated Indian Air Force veteran Air Marshal Denzil Keelor. #Surprise"

His tweet attracted more than 3,000 retweets. The video has gone viral on Facebook as well.

On reverse search one of the keyframes from the viral video, we found the long version of the same video on YouTube. It was posted on August 9, 2015, by a verified channel "WildFilmsIndia" with the title "Nehru lost India the war: Air Marshal Denzil Keelor speaks about India's battle losses".

According to the long description with the video, this interview was the part of a planned series by the production house on the 1962 and 1965 wars that India fought. Wilderness Films India invited retired Air Marshal Denzil Keelor to the show.

India Today's anchor/Editor Shiv Aroor pointed out the fake claim of Asif Ghafoor on Twitter.

Asif Ghafoor later put a clarification on Twitter by accepting that the video was doctored.

The clip of Air Marshal is revealed to be doctored through inset. Admission and expression were too identical to differentiate. Unintentional omission is acknowledged, especially to Indians.

Nonetheless, environment remained unchanged for IAF on both the occasions. Asif Ghafoor (@peaceforchange) July 28, 2019



It is clear that the viral video is around four-years-old, where Denzil Keelor talked about the wars India fought in 1962 and 1965.