The new e-passport is still under process but it has somehow managed to grab eyeballs on social media for all the wrong reasons. A Facebook post going viral showcases pictures of a plastic card, much similar to any debit or credit card, claiming it to be the new e-passport.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral images are misleading and have nothing to do with the soon-to-be-issued e-passports.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Facebook page 'AWAAZ E AWAAM' has posted these images along with the caption: "The New Smart Passport - Concept of future is here. The elegant All-In-One identity solution for every Indian Citizen very soon." Among others, Facebook users such as 'Ma Sarwar Khan' and 'Kari Mehta' have also shared these photos with similar claims.

When we reverse-searched the images, we found an article on a blog called 'The Startup-Medium' published on February 17, 2017, using the same photographs. The blog with the headline 'The Passport-Concept' was written by Siddhant Gupta, who is an engineer and a designer by profession.

Back in 2017, Siddhant had proposed a concept design of "all-in-one identity" which could replace identity proofs. Images used in his blog contain a caption saying: "Indian Passport Card-Concept Design (Front & Back)." This clearly means that the concept design was merely a suggestion. In fact, Siddhant has mentioned his own name in the concept design.

In 2017, the Modi government had announced to issue chip-enabled e-passports for citizens. The chip will contain information about the passport holder such photograph, biometric data like fingerprints and travel data.

Responding to one of the questions asked in Rajya Sabha, the Ministry of External Affairs had confirmed the news. Later on January 22, 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke at the Pravasi Bhartiya Divas about new e-passports that will be introduced soon. Many prominent media houses had covered the news.

Also read | Fact Check: No, Maggi doesn’t contain pig fat

Also read | Fact Check: Old, controversial story of African lions saving a girl surfaces again