A disturbing video with uncomfortable visuals is resurfacing on social media with different claims.

The 72-second video that has been doing the rounds on Facebook and Twitter shows a man lying face down on the ground, and several young boys thrashing him with sticks and bricks ruthlessly.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the many claims along with the video to be misleading.

advertisement

The claim

Facebook page Khoob Surat Zindagi posted the video on July 23, 2019. The Hindi caption along with the video translates to, "These are Kendriya Vidyalaya students. This video should be made viral so that these students are arrested at the earliest. Inhuman act. Police must acknowledge this. Whoever sees this must make it viral so that teachers, students and parents become aware. Friends, for the sake of humanity, this is a request to share this video in more and more groups, and ensure that every news channel shows this."

The video was shared by more than 1,200 users and received 39,000 views.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Same video, different claims

The same video has been viral on social media over the last few days with different claims.

On July 21, Paschimbanga Muslim Buddhijibi Mancha posted the video with a communal spin. The caption in Bengali translates to, "BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh has hit the headlines again. Please see the young man being beaten by a crazy mob. The man on the ground is not moving. It is not known if he is alive or has already died."

This page went to the extent of writing, "Strange is our country. Stranger is our law and order system. Innocent people are getting butchered in the name of holy cow, beard, caps and Jai Sri Ram slogans. But when saffron terrorists kill hundreds by blasting bombs, no one bothers to take any action against them. On the contrary, if you upload a 14-second video on TikTok, you can be jailed!"

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Earlier, the same video was posted by Facebook user Md. Shobug. He claimed that the video is from Magura district in Bangladesh. His post was shared by more than 900 people and reposted by many.

Here is the archived version of the post .

What we found

AFWA examined all these claims and found that they are either false or misleading. A reverse search by a key frame of the video showed that the incident actually took place at a government college at Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh. ETV Andhra Pradesh reported the incident on June 29, 2019.

advertisement

AFWA had also found that the youth was beaten up over a love affair and there is no communal angle to the incident. Police have confirmed the same.

Another news report regarding the claim can be seen here.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the youth was beaten up over a love affair and there was no communal angle to the incident. Neither were the students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, nor did the incident take place in Bangladesh's Magura. The incident took place at a government college in Andhra Pradesh's Anantapur.

Earlier, Alt News had also debunked the claim.