The Covid-19 pandemic has claimed the lives of several health workers across the world. These were people treating patients infected with coronavirus. A recent report says more than 60 doctors have died in Italy during the outbreak.

Amid this, an emotional post is circulating on social media showing a man lying on a hospital bed and giving the thumbs-up sign to health care workers standing near him. It is being claimed that this is 38-year-old Italian doctor Julian Urban, waving goodbye to co-doctors as he is about to die due to coronavirus.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the photo to be untrue. The photo was taken in a hospital in China's Wuhan when a team of doctors was treating a Covid-19 patient.

AFWA probe

Facebook user "Thila Balasubramaniyan" shared the image with the caption, "They are saying their final Goodbyes to love ones Not because of Exotic food eating habits, not because of travelling despite Lockdown, not because of going against Goverment rules and regulations or Not because of going againts Nature. They are dying because they have done nothing but chose to be a DOCTOR !"

On the viral image is superimposed the following text: "A 38-year-old Italian Doctor waves Goodbye to co-doctors as he could no longer survive Coronavirus Dr. Julian Urban. A 38 year-old doctor serving in a hospital in Lombardy, Italy Sends his last words to co-doctors." The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The misleading post has been shared widely on social media. We found that the screenshot shared in the viral post was of an article from a website called "Magical Earth".

Some other dubious websites (https://www.faithpot.com/atheist-doctor-finds-god-covid-19/) have also carried the story with the same photo.

Using reverse search, we found that the viral photo has been used by many credible news websites. As per "Buzzfeed", the photo was taken at Hankou hospital in Wuhan on January 27, 2020.

A report by "South China Morning Post" also carries the viral photo with the caption, "Doctors in Wuhan are working around the clock and against the odds to battle the coronavirus outbreak."

None of the credible news reports, carrying the viral photo, says that the patient seen here is himself a doctor. AFWA could not independently verify the story of an Italian doctor named Julian Urban who died after waving goodbye to his co-doctors. But it is clear that the viral photo is not from Italy but China.