A set of four pictures showing women in different kinds of masks, including gas masks and some weird face covers, is doing the rounds on social media with the claim that the images were taken during the Spanish flu pandemic of 1918-20. In the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak, the claim says we are at the same spot where we were a hundred years back.

advertisement

Among others, Facebook page "The Weird Tales" shared the pictures with the caption, "Spanish Flu" (1918-1920) Glimpses from the last #pandemic over a 100 years ago. Life has come a full circle and we still stand at the same spot. History repeats! #WeAreInThisTogether Again. #Theweirdtales #funnyfails #fails #100waystodie"

Spanish Flu (1918-1920) Glimpses from the last #pandemic over a 100 years ago. Life has come a full circle and we still... Posted by The Weird Tales on Sunday, 7 June 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that none of the pictures are related to the Spanish flu pandemic which affected around 500 million people across the world.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. The post is viral on Facebook and Twitter.

Using reverse image search, AFWA traced the origin of each of the four pictures.

Picture 1

This picture of two women in gas masks pushing a pram was taken in 1941, some 23 years after the Spanish flu struck. We found this picture in the stock of “Getty Images” with the header “Gas Test” and caption, “9th June 1941: A gas masked young mother attends to her child’s pram gas mask during a surprise gas test in Kingston. (Photo by Keystone/Getty Images)”.

We could not find further details about the photo.

Picture 2

This picture of two women wearing cone-shaped transparent face masks was clicked in 1939 in Montreal, Canada. We found this image on “flickr”. The photo description in Dutch says the women were wearing plastic face protectors as a shield against chilling snowstorms.

Picture 3

This picture of two women wearing scarf-like masks on their faces and walking hand in hand was clicked in 1913. We found this photo in the stock of “alamy”.

The photo description says, “This image could have imperfections as it’s either historical or reportage. Ladies’ fashion from 1913. New veil fashions, based on Turkish nose veils.” The picture credit has been given to Sueddeutsche Zeitung.

advertisement

The photo caption in German on the picture translates to, “The war in the Balkans (a region in Europe) has created a new peculiar fashion. Women have been wearing the nose veil that has been used in Turkey for centuries.”

Picture 4

This picture was clicked in 1953 in Philadelphia, United States. We found this image in the photo gallery of several websites with the caption, “War surplus gas capes are used by Meriel Bush, left, and Ruth Neuer, in an attempt to dodge the eye-stinging effects of a low-hanging smog and smoke which enveloped Philadelphia for the second straight day, Nov. 20, 1953. Freak weather conditions throughout the east have been blamed for the haze. (AP Photo)”.

Spanish flu outbreak

The Spanish flu pandemic was a deadly influenza outbreak caused by the H1N1 virus. It broke out in 1918 and the deadly effects subsided only two years later, infecting 500 million people across the world in its wake. The death toll is estimated to have been as high as 100 million.

The origin of the flu remains disputed, but since Spain did not take part in World War I which was going on then, its press was free to report the scale of the outbreak, unlike wartime censorship in other countries. This gave the impression that Spain was hit hard by the pandemic and it was thus named Spanish flu. The pandemic, however, affected United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany and several other countries.

But it is clear that the viral images are not related to the Spanish flu outbreak.