Rhea Chakraborty got bail on Wednesday after spending almost a month in jail in the Bollywood drug racket probe, initiated post Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Soon after, a tweet, purportedly made by her, started doing the rounds on social media in which she asked what her crime was.

“Got bail after being in jail for 28 days, after all what was the crime.?” reads the tweet made from the handle “@tweet2_rhea”. Some verified Twitter handles also retweeted it, believing it was posted by Rhea herself.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the Twitter handle “@tweet2_rhea” does not belong to Rhea Chakraborty. It is a fake account impersonating her original Twitter handle, which is “@Tweet2Rhea”.

Similarities and differences

Comparing the fake and original Twitter accounts, we found there are enough similarities between the two which could easily mislead a user. The fake handle, “@tweet2_rhea” is almost the same as the original “@Tweet2Rhea”.

The screenshots of their Twitter bios also look similar with the same photos and description saying, “smile a lot, because one day your teeth will fall off..: D”.

In the fake account, “#justiceforssr #justiceforrhea CT-15” is added to the bio. But the biggest difference is that Rhea has a verified Twitter handle with a blue tick.

Rhea’s Twitter account

Fake handle

Deciphering the fake account

As per data given by “TweetBeaver”, this fake account was created on July 8, 2020. This account is now being followed by over 1,100 people, including some verified users.

We found that Rhea has not tweeted anything from her handle “@Tweet2Rhea” after July 16. On that day, she had appealed to the Home Minister for a CBI inquiry into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. After that, the account remained silent for weeks.

The fake handle, on the other hand, kept on tweeting about various issues ranging from politics to Hathras while Rhea was in jail for 28 days. Simultaneously, it kept appealing for Rhea’s bail. Using “foller.me”, we found the range of subjects upon which this Twitter account reacted. In the last three months, it posted 3,335 tweets.

Hence, it can be concluded that the viral tweet was not made by Rhea. She did not speak on her bail till the filing of this article.