More than two months after his electoral victory, Joe Biden was sworn in as the 46th President of the United States on January 20. The high-voltage transition took place even as Donald Trump refused to cede power for weeks, maintaining that he had won the elections and the results were rigged in Biden’s favour.

Now, a farewell note apparently written by Trump to Biden before he vacated the Oval Office is doing the rounds on social media. The letter says, “Joe, you know I won.”

advertisement

Several Twitter and Facebook users have shared the letter on a White House letterhead and with Trump’s signature.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Trump did leave a letter for Biden in The White House. The new President even called it “very generous”, but did not disclose the content of the letter. The viral letter does not match the latest protocol and insignia of The White House.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, and here.

Trump’s note to Biden

Before leaving the Oval Office, Trump left a letter for his successor, which was confirmed by White House spokesperson Judd Deere. But The White House did not release the contents of Trump’s note. “It’s a letter between 45 and 46,” Deere said, as reported by “USA Today”.

Later, Biden also confirmed to reporters that he received the letter from Trump and called it “very generous”. “The President wrote a very generous letter. Because it was private, I won’t talk about it until I talk to him. But it was generous,” Biden said.

The viral letter

The viral letter, supposedly with Trump’s signature on it, and saying, “Joe, you know I won”, seems to have originated from a blog that claimed to have received a copy of the letter.

Since the White House has not revealed the contents of the original letter, US media such as PolitiFact tried to get a response from the President’s office regarding the viral letter. But till the time of writing this article, there was no response from the White House.

The viral letter does not match the latest protocol of a US President’s letter on several counts either.

Comparing some of Trump’s recent letters with the viral note, we found that the letters sent by the former US President’s office did not have the same office seal on the letterheads.

Also, Trump’s letters written from the President’s office bear a different format regarding dates. They have month before the day and not vice versa as seen in the viral letter.

advertisement

Original letter

Viral letter

There is also a discrepancy between Trump’s recent signature and the signature on the viral letter. We found that Trump’s signature has changed over the years. There are also news reports on how Trump’s signature has changed from 2015 to 2017.

We found that the signature in the viral letter matches more with his 2015 signature and not with the recent one.

Trump’s recent signature

Signature in viral letter

Social media is flooded with memes since news of Trump’s letter to Biden emerged. But there is no authentic source confirming that the viral letter was indeed written by Trump.

READ | Fact Check: Morphed images of Thailand floods inundate social media

READ | Fact Check: Bill Gates never said Covid vaccines will kill or disable 7 lakh people

READ | Fact Check: No, Yogi govt will not shut madrasas that do not celebrate Republic Day