The video shows an incident that took place in Karnal in January this year when Haryana CM Khattar was scheduled to attend the Kisan Mahapanchayat. He had to cancel his visit to the Kisan Mahapanchayat venue as the agitating farmers had vandalized the venue.

After a rigorous agitation by farmers for more than a year, PM Modi finally announced to repeal the Farm Bill in the winter session in the Parliament in November 2021. This elicited mixed reaction from various quarters. While the opposition parties termed it a victory of farmers, several News Anchors expressed disappointment and some Right Wing Social Media influencers criticized PM’s decision. However, the combined farmer’s union has not called off the agitation as they await the government to resume dialogues on implementing the remaining demands initially made by the farmers. Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has said that the agitation will go on until all the other demands are met. In this context, a video showing a group of men vandalizing a programme venue is being shared on social media. The social media users claim that this video shows the anger of the public after scrapping of the three farm laws.

The Hindi caption of the video can be roughly translated in English as, “Ruckus after the announcement of the withdrawal of the three farm laws, the trends have started coming”

The original caption of the video says “लो भाई तीनों कृषि कानूनों के वापसी की घोषणा के बाद रुझान आने शुरू…कोई गोदी मीडिया नहीं दिखायेगा |”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

This video is also circulating on Facebook.

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by breaking the video into small key frames with the help InVid We verify tool and ran a reverse image search of the key frames thus obtained. The results led us to the same video uploaded on YouTube on 10 January 2021. The caption of the video mentions, “Farmers broke the stage of CM Khattar in Karnal, see live footage.” The description of the video mentions that farmers in Karnal were lathi-charged, tear gas shells were fired and water cannons were used against the farmers. A group of agitating farmers were going towards the CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s Krishi Mahapanchayat program, who were stopped by the police. The farmers were carrying black flags who created a ruckus after the police stopped them.

Following this lead, we ran a key word search on Youtube, which led us to a news report on the incident published by India TV on January 10 this year. The headline of the video mentions, “CM Khattar’s Mahapanchayat canceled after the uproar in Karnal, we will protest.” The description of the video states that “Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s Kisan Mahapanchayat program has been canceled after a clash between protesting farmers and police in Haryana’s Karnal. Police lathi-charged, used water cannons on protesting farmers who were protesting Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s program in Karnal.”

According to the Indian Express, ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ programme in Karnal had to be cancelled after protesting farmers uprooted tents and damaged the stage at the venue after Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the Centre was not likely to repeal the three farm laws. The report mentions that the CM had to cancel his visit to attend the Kisan Mahapanchayat at Karnal after the agitating farmers vandalized the venue. This vandalism took place in demand of the revocation of the three farm laws.

Express Punjab tweeted on 10 January stating that Protest by farmers against Haryana CM intensified ahead of his arrival for Mahapanchayat in Karnal today. Protesters captured stage and said they were ready to face police lathis. Event cancelled.”

Protest by farmers against Haryana CM @mlkhattar intensified ahead of his arrival for Mahapanchayat in Karnal today. Protesters captured stage and said they were ready to face police lathis. Event cancelled. Express video: @JasbirMalhi1 | Reporting: @SiwachSukhbir @IndianExpress pic.twitter.com/WNR5FOMzEN — Express Punjab (@iepunjab) January 10, 2021

Thus, the above information makes it very clear that the viral video has no relation with the repealing of the farm laws by the central government. PM Modi announced to repeal the laws on 19 November 2021. The viral video shows an incident that took place in January 2021.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the video to be misleading. The viral video claiming to show the aftermath of the repeal of the farm laws is being shared with misleading claims. The video shows an incident that took place in January 2021. It has no relation with the present repealing of the three farm laws.