While senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh recently called Prime Minister Narendra Modi unjust towards the farmers of the country, an image of him sitting on stairs with a group of men is viral on social media. It is being said that the PM who is a world leader is sitting with his office staff, some of whom are peons. The post describes the image as a symbol of equality and companionship.

advertisement

An extract from the caption to one such post in Malayalam translates to, “The Prime Minister of India is sitting on stairs with his office staff. Four of them are peons. He is a world leader as well as a karma yogi. There is no inequality here. The message here is sit with us, let us work together. Jai Hind.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The men seen in the image are staff members of BJP’s Gujarat office and the image was taken in February 2014. Modi assumed charge of the office of Prime Minister in May 2014.



The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, here and here.



AFWA PROBE

With the help of reverse image search, we found the same image was shared in 2014 as BJP’s office in Gujarat.

The caption to one such post on Facebook uploaded on February 10, 2014, read, “Narendraji modi with b.j.p office staff of gujrat. Pride moment for office staff (sic)."

The same image was also shared on February 10, 2014, on the verified Twitter handle of Majura (Surat) MLA, Harsh Sanghavi. The tweet read, “Real Leader Hon @narendramodi Seat On Steps With BJP Gujarat office staff And Made Them Smile.”

Real Leader Hon @narendramodi Seat On Steps With BJP Gujarat office staff And Made Them Smile @nanditathhakur pic.twitter.com/YPJ61eEoDs — Harsh Sanghavi (@sanghaviharsh) February 10, 2014

Modi assumed the charge of the office of Prime Minister in May 2014, while the image in question is in circulation since at least February 2014 - before Modi became the PM.

For better clarity, AFWA reached out to Bharat Pandya, the principal spokesperson of BJP’s Gujarat unit. Pandya confirmed to us that the image was clicked before Modi became the Prime Minister. He also said that the men sitting beside Modi are the staff members of BJP’s Gujarat headquarters.

“This image was clicked on February 10, 2014, during the inauguration of BJP’s Gujarat office building, Shree Kamalam. The men sitting along with Modi ji are all the staff members of our BJP office. Also, Modi ji was Gujarat Chief Minister at that time. He had not become the PM,” Pandya confirmed.



Inauguration of Gujarat BJP's new headquarters, Shri Kamalam in Gandhinagar was held on February 10, 2014. Besides Modi, the then Gujarat CM, BJP veteran LK Advani was also present at the ceremony.



Modi had also tweeted regarding the inaugural ceremony of BJP’s new headquarters in Gujarat from his official Twitter handle.

advertisement Gujarat BJP's new office building 'Shree Kamalam' was inaugurated in the presence of Advani ji & other leaders pic.twitter.com/zgdoN4khxM — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) February 10, 2014

Thus, it is clear that the image in question was taken before Modi became the Prime Minister of India and the men with Modi are staff members of BJP’s Gujarat state office in Gandhinagar and not of the PM’s office.