As the war wages on in Ukraine, invading Russian forces have intensified their offence by introducing missiles from submarines to neutralise enemy targets. The report comes not long after Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelenskyy said life has become "difficult" in Donbas and Kharkiv due to Russian attacks.

Amidst these developments, a video has become viral on social media in which Russian military vehicles were seen toppled close to a derailed train. It is shared with write-ups criticising the Russian inefficiency along with throwing questions about the chances of sabotage. The viral posts identify the place of the incident as the Russian town of Bryansk.

advertisement

"Russians are so agile that they can’t even deliver equipment normally. Russian incompetence or railway saboteurs, what do you think? Video allegedly filmed near Bryansk," one such Facebook post was captioned.

Similar claims have been archived here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. This video is available online since 2017. Russian media reports state this rail mishap happened in the city of Chita.

AFWA Probe

A reverse search of the video's screenshots on Yandex took us to a couple of videos on YouTube. Both these videos were uploaded in September 2017 -- years before the full-fledged invasion of Ukraine by Putin's forces began.

One of these had a description in detail. When translated, we learnt that the Russian channel claimed the video was shot from the Transbaikalia region and a personnel was injured in the incident. Transbaikalia or Transbaikal is a mountainous region situated in eastern Russia.

It further identified the exact place as Chita-2 station and a total of 13 wagons were derailed.

We copied and searched the Russian title of the YouTube video on Google. The top results were media reports from 2017. A report by Ukrinform.ru on September 6, 2017, had several photos of the accident and had a YouTube video embedded. This 37-second video is the same as the one being shared now as from Bryansk.

The story published by a non-profit called Inform Napalm had more information about the incident. It confirmed that the accident happened at 1:33 PM local time on September 6, 2017, at the Chita-2 railway station. The wagon involved was taking artillery reconnaissance systems to the border with North Korea, it said.

The now-viral video was found used in this report as well.

Another Russian news website Iz.ru published on the same day also carried the same information.

There were reports of Russia repelling the Ukraine Air Force from raiding the border city of Bryansk on April 30. However, an oil terminal in the city was damaged in Ukrainian shelling, multiple reports said.

We ran a search on Yandex for military mishaps near Bryansk in recent times but found nothing.

Hence, it can be concluded that old footage of a rail mishap from eastern Russia is shared as from the border town of Bryansk in the backdrop of war in Ukraine.