The tremor caused by the June 9 Mount Sinabung eruption was felt across social media. So much so that even after 10 days, netizens have been posting videos, claiming them to be of the volcanic eruption in Indonesia.

One such video shows a series of underwater explosions which leads to a huge plume of thick ash, triggering a tsunami. At the end of the video, the beach area across the sea can be seen enveloped with ashes.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is an animation which was made by a geologist to show underwater volcanic eruption just off the coast of New Zealand. It has nothing to do with the Indonesian eruption.

Socialite Nisha JamVwal posted the video on her Facebook account saying, "Sinabung volcano on sunday at 04:28, recorded by cctv , the screen goes blank -watch until the end. Mount Sinabung in North Sumatra, Indonesia, sent a huge plume of thick ash 7km high into the sky during an eruption on 9 June. Residents living near the volcano were urged to use masks when ash rains down and those living along the rivers upstream were warned of cold lava floods during rains. There were no casualties." The archived version of the post can be seen here.



One of the comments on JamVwal's post says, "OMG, Incredible sight!" Another Facebook user Deepankar Banerjee uploaded a video on June 19 saying, "Sinabung volcano Sumatra Indonesia on sunday the 9th June 2019 at 04:28. WATCH TILL END OF VIDEO...."



Within an hour of this post, more than 60 people shared it. The archived version of this tweet can be seen here.



AFWA used fake video dubunker tool Invid which found that this video was widely shared on multiple platforms. According to a news article, an Australian geologist had hired a team of producers to create a simulation of an underwater volcanic eruption just off the coast of New Zealand. This video, which was written about in 2017, only shows what could happen if an underwater volcano erupts close to an inhabited mainland. An article on underwater volcano eruption can be read here.

Other pictures and videos of the Mount Sinabung eruption show that the volcano had erupted on a mountain and not under the sea. According to news reports, the eruption sent a high volcanic ash column of 5,000 metres into the sky. The area around the volcano became uninhabitable, but there were no reports of casualties.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video showing underwater volcanic explosion has nothing to do with the Indonesian eruption. The viral post is a simulation made in 2017.