West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday refused to speak at an event in Kolkata to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose after “Jai Shri Ram” slogans were raised in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

A day after the incident, the official Twitter handle of Bengal BJP posted a clip of a local news channel showing Mamata reciting Islamic prayers. The caption reads, “If CM Mamata Banerjee can recite an Islamic prayer at a West Bengal government event, why does she have a problem being greeted with Jai Shree Ram? Appeasement? She disgraced Bengal and insulted Netaji’s legacy by her conduct at the event to commemorate Netaji’s anniversary.”

advertisement

Several Facebook users have also posted the 12-second video with similar claims.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral clip is three years old. In that event, Mamata did recite Islamic verses, but she had also recited Hindu, Christian and Sikh prayers.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, and here.

The whole picture

After BJP put out the video on Twitter, several users replied with a longer version of the video and pointed out that the viral clip is incomplete and from a 2018 event. From the longer clip, we found that the on-screen graphics by the local channel mentions that the event, Maati Utsav, was held in Burdwan district.

Taking this as a clue, we found that the complete video was uploaded by YouTube channel “AITC official” on January 2, 2018, with the title, “Bengal CM inaugurates Mati Utsav’, 2018 in Mati Tirtha-Krishi Katha, Purba Burdwan”. The YouTube channel gave courtesy to local Bengali news channel “CN News” for the entire 25-minute video.

After 21.28 minutes in the video, Mamata is seen reciting a hymn for the Hindu goddess Durga, saying “Sarba Mangala Mangallye”, and then a prayer invoking “Allah” while praying for everyone’s good health and prosperity.

She then asked God to “bless us all” and chanted a Khalsa prayer saying “Wahe Guru Ji Da Khalsa, Wahe Guru Di Fateh”. She had also said “Saare jahan se achha Hindustan hamara” at the end of the same event.

Maati Utsav was started by the West Bengal government in 2013 to reward farmers across the state.

Hence, it is found that the 12-second clip of Mamata Banerjee has been cut out of a 25-minute speech by her three years back and put out on social media in the wrong context. The same clip went viral in 2019 with a similar misleading claim that was then debunked by fact-checkers.