Amid the outrage in France over the beheading of a teacher in Paris by one Abdoullakh Anzorov, a video has gone viral showing people protesting against the street prayers being offered by the Muslims.

Multiple Facebook users have posted this viral video, claiming that the French people are now protesting against the street prayers or Namaz offered by the Muslims.

The Facebook caption reads "France is revolting. Today in France. French citizens came out openly protesting against Muslims taking over sidewalks & road space for Namaz...Frenchies responded by singing the French national anthem loudly. They are not taking things lying down anymore...A civil war may start if the radical Muslims don't restraint and correct their ways"

advertisement

The same video was also posted by columnist "Tarekh Fatah" and activist MadhuPurnima Kishwar.

French citizens protesting against muslims taking over sidewalks & road space for Namaz.....

Frenchies responded by singing the French national anthem loudly.

No surprise if these "endangered"Islamists seek asylum in India & "Sabaka-Saath-Sant" enacts special law to welcome them! pic.twitter.com/XzOnia59Kd— MadhuPurnima Kishwar (@madhukishwar) October 23, 2020

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the video is three years old. Hundreds of French politicians and residents carried out a protest rally in a Paris suburb in 2017 against the public offering of namaaz blocking roads and sidewalks.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, here, and here.

Multiple users have posted this on Facebook.

The viral video

With the help of InVid and reverse image search, we found multiple news reports of 2017.

According to these reports, hundreds of politicians and residents of Clichy, a suburb in Paris, protested singing the French national anthem while the Muslims were offering namaaz in public.

We found similarities between the screengrab from the viral video and the picture published on the news website in 2017.

Image published in News website

This same incident with a similar video was uploaded on the YouTube channel of Associated Press on November 15, 2017, with the title "Paris suburb tries to stop Muslim street prayers".

The video description says, "On Nov 10, 2017, tensions have erupted as residents and the mayor of a Paris suburb on Friday tried to block Muslims from praying in the street, in a dispute that reflects nationwide problems with mosque shortages."

In the viral video, protesters can be seen with a blue banner where "STOP AUX PRIˆRES DE RUE ILL‰GALES" is written in French, which in English means, "STOP ILLEGAL STREET PRAYERS". This same banner can be seen in a news report published on BBC on November 10, 2017, on the same incident.

Image from BBC report

As per the BBC report, Rémi Muzeau, the right-wing mayor of Clichy, who led the demonstration, called on the interior ministry to ban the street prayers. But the worshippers, however, say they have nowhere else to go since the town hall took over the room they used for prayers back in March.

Conclusion

Hence, it is confirmed that the viral video which is being circulated in the backdrop of the teacher beheading incident in Paris is three years old and has no relation to the recent outrage in France.