Congress leader and former actress Nagma tweeted a video of a woman criticising the BJP government, claiming that she is the niece of late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.

The 2-minute-20-second video was posted by Nagma from her Twitter handle “@nagma_morarji” on October 6. Text laid over the video in Hindi says, “Honourable Atal Bihari Vajpayee's niece finally broke her silence”.

advertisement

The Congress politician wrote a caption in Hindi which translates to, “Atal ji’s niece is saying that RSS and BJP have a dangerous agenda of dividing the country and they are pursuing it. They are destroying the unity and integrity of the country together with the godi media. They are not able to provide jobs to youth, solve farmers’ issues or provide safety to women.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the woman in the video is not Vajpayee’s niece Karuna Shukla, but social activist Atiya Alvi, who was talking about the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at Jantar Mantar in January this year.

Several Facebook users have also shared the clip. The archived versions are saved here , here and here.

We found the same clip was circulated with the same claim earlier this year during the peak of anti-CAA protests.

Tracing the video

The viral clip mentions “HNP News” as the source. Using keyword search, we found the original video on YouTube posted on January 3. This video is 14 minutes long.

We came to know from the video posted by the news channel that the woman is Atiya Alvi, a social activist who was speaking about CAA from Jantar Mantar in January this year.

Vajpayee’s niece Karuna is much older than the woman in the viral video. She left BJP and joined Congress in 2014. This was reported in mainstream news websites.

Hence, it is clear that the claim made by Congress leader Nagma about another Congress leader is misleading. The woman seen in the clip is not former PM Vajpayee’s niece Karuna Shukla, but social activist Atiya Alvi.

A few days earlier, Nagma fell for a prank on a dance reality show and made false allegations against the BJP on Twitter. She later deleted the tweet.