Is it the great bail fail of our times? Social media is agog with claims that the authority of the police to grant bail to an accused person without taking him or her to a magistrate, under Section 41 (A) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), has been revoked. The claims say it is a move to beat corruption in policing.

advertisement

One such viral claim reads, "Union Law Department has amended CRPC 41A and cancelled the police station bail to check corruption in the police department. From now onwards bails will be granted by the courts only and a gazette notification was also issued."

According to the viral post, a gazette notification has been issued by the Centre in this regard.

The archived version of the post can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral claim to be false. The Union government hasn't cancelled the police station bail system in the country. Station House Officers can still grant bail to accused in bailable offences.

AFWA probes

We searched for news reports on the cancellation of the police station bail system in India. However, no credible sources have reported that the practice has been cancelled.

We also checked the Ministry of Home Affairs' official website (https://www.mha.gov.in/) and Twitter handle. There was no notification or post regarding the revocation of the station bail system.

However, we found a few articles from previous years, demanding revocation of the prevailing bail system due to violation of norms in granting station bail by officers.

Experts speak

AFWA contacted Bar Council of India member and senior advocate P. Vishnuvardhan Reddy for better clarity on the viral claim.

Vishnuvardhan told AFWA: "A resolution has been passed in the bar council demanding the revocation of police station bail because police officers are misusing the judicial power. But the reports saying that the police station bail has been revoked cannot be true. We have not received any such notification from the home ministry."

Explaining why there is a demand for revocation of the police station bail system, S.R. Anjaneyulu, a senior advocate from Andhra Pradesh High Court, said, "After the amendment of Section 41 of CrPC in 2010, police started enjoying increased independence. This leaves scope for misuse of powers by corrupt police officers. People are easily getting bail through the police station and hence offences have increased."

Hence, though there is a demand for a re-look at the police station bail practice, there has been no such move by the home ministry. The power of the police to grant bail for bailable offences has not been revoked in India.