Reports of fatalities and side-effects suspected to be linked to Covid-19 vaccines have been pouring in from across the world. Amid this, a message on Facebook claims that Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has said in an interview to CNBC that 7 lakh people will face death or disability due to the vaccines.

Several Facebook users have posted either a screen shot or a web link or a copy of an article published in a German website called “KenFM” to support their claims.

advertisement

As per the article, “In an interview with CNBC, Gates says that for every 10,000 people, permanent vaccination damage would occur and he expects 700,000 victims.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that in the CNBC interview dated April 9, 2020, Gates had said that 7 lakh people would suffer from side-effects due to the Covid-19 vaccines. He never said the side-effects could be fatal and cause permanent damage or disability.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

What Gates said about Covid vaccine side-effects

We found that in the 26-minute interview given to CNBC news channel in April last year, Bill Gates had indeed talked about the side-effects of Covid-19 vaccines. But he never said the vaccines would kill or permanently disable 7 lakh people.

Gates was talking about the possible magnitude of side-effects while vaccinating nearly 7 billion people worldwide. He explains that side-effects to even one in 10,000 people would mean 7 lakh people could be affected.

“If we have one in 10,000 side-effects, that’s way more 700,000 people who will suffer from that,” Gates said in the interview. He also explained about the efficacy of the vaccine in older people, which he considered to be a huge challenge.

The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has pledged billions of dollars in vaccination programmes across the world.

As per World Health Organization and the United States national public health institute Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, like many other vaccines, Covid vaccines also have some side-effects, but they should go away in a few days. Vaccine side-effects are normal signs that our body is building protection against the virus.

Although there are reports of deaths after Covid-19 vaccination from Norway, no government or international body for public health have so far called the situation alarming.

AFP Fact Check had also debunked the same claim earlier on Bill Gates and vaccination. Hence, it can be concluded that the viral claim saying Gates has said 7 lakh people will be victims of death or permanent disability due to Covid-19 vaccine is misleading.

advertisement

READ | Fact Check: No, this is not a rehearsal by protesting farmers for January 26 tractor rally

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Conspiracy theory on bird flu linking bird deaths to Jio 5G trial goes viral

WATCH | Fact Check: Viral post on 'Made-in-India' Signal, Sanskrit coding is a work of satire