A video is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it shows the visuals of Nupur Sharma getting arrested. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Visuals of Nupur Sharma getting arrested. Fact: The woman in the video is not Nupur Sharma. She is Bhumi Birmi, who is a farmer leader from Rajasthan. The incident in the video is related to a farmers’ protest in Churu (Rajasthan). Also, there are no reports of Nupur Sharma getting arrested. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

When the screenshots of the video were run through Google Reverse Image Search, no proper information regarding the video was found in the search results. However, on searching with some keywords, a post with some relevant information was found on Facebook. A user clarified in a post that the woman in the viral video is Bhumi Birmi, not Nupur Sharma. Another user has also written the same.

On looking through the Facebook profile of Bhumi Birmi, the extended version of the viral video was found. In the ‘Intro’ section, it can be read that she is “District President, Women Wing, Bhartiya Kisan Union(Non-political), Churu”. Her other posts related to the incident in the video can be seen here, here, here, here, and here.

Also, there are no reports of Nupur Sharma getting arrested. On 20 June 2022, ‘India Today’ reported – “Suspended BJP leader Nupur Sharma has asked for a four-week extension to appear before the Kolkata Police owing to alleged threats against her life over her controversial remarks about Muhammad the Prophet”.

To sum it up, an unrelated video is being falsely shared as the visuals of Nupur Sharma getting arrested.

Update (27 JUNE 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media with the same claim that it shows Nupur Sharma being arrested by the police. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

When the screenshots of the video were run through Google Reverse Image Search, a similar video was found to be uploaded on YouTube with the following title – “Bts of pyar deewangi hai”. On searching with keywords, another video showing the shooting of the same scene was found on YouTube.

‘Pyar Deewangi Hai’ is a drama serial that can be watched on ARY Digital (a Pakistani television network). The same scene can also be seen in the teaser of ‘Pyar Deewangi Hai’ posted by the ‘ARY Digital HD’ YouTube channel. So, the posted video is not related to Nupur Sharma but to a serial.