Did Muslim organisations take out a rally chanting pro-Pakistan slogans and demanding the rebuilding of Babri Mosque after the Congress's victory in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh?

According to a video, these claims have been shared made on social media. The caption in one of the Facebook posts reads, "Yeh lo Congress ki jeet ko abhi 24 ghante bhi nahi hue aur Babri Masjid ke liye juloos aur Pakistan ke nare lagne lage. (It has not even been 24 hours since the Congress has won and a procession demanding the Babri Mosque and pro-Pak slogans are being raised)."

advertisement

At the time of filing this report, this post has been shared more than 9,000 times from a single Facebook page, Politics Solitics.

It has been shared on many other Facebook pages as well.

Image: Facebook

India Today Fact Check found these claims to be misleading. The rally was taken out much before the results of Assembly elections were declared. People in the rally did demand rebuilding of the Babri Mosque but did not raise pro-Pakistan slogans.

In the video, Indian Union Muslim League Sambhal city can be seen written on banners. Sambhal is a district in western Uttar Pradesh.

Image: Screengrab from viral video

Using keywords - Sambhal and Babri Masjid - we found the same video on YouTube which was uploaded two years ago in 2016. In the video, it can be seen that the people are carrying placards with pictures of the Babri Mosque and raising slogans for its rebuilding.

We spoke to Mukimur-Quereshi, the district president of Muslim League in Sambhal. He said, "Every year on December 6, we take out a march demanding the rebuilding of the Babri Mosque. This particular video is from our protest march but not from this year. The Babri Mosque was demolished on December 6, 1992."

Quereshi insisted, "We have been taking out this March very year since the Babri Mosque demolition. Neither do we ever raise pro-Pakistan slogans nor do this rally has anything to do with the recent victory of the Congress party."

A similar video is being shared widely on Facebook with the claim that Pakistani flags were waived at the Congress victory rally in Rajasthan.

The Rajasthan Police has officially refuted the claim and termed it false.

Alert



This video circulating on #socialmedia claims that there is a Pakistan flag being waved in a victory procession of @INCIndia.



This is false and we request people not to get trapped by this . We are trying to trace the mischief-maker.#FakeNews @SMHoaxSlayer pic.twitter.com/WDnABuJx2M Rajasthan Police (@PoliceRajasthan) December 12, 2018





(With inputs from Anoop Kumar)