What has started on social media as suggestion to India’s business companies to refrain from doing business with Pakistan in view of the Pulwama massacre of CRPF jawans too too many twists and turns.

One such tweet by AAP activist Preeti Sharma Menon @PreetiSMenon said: “It took the sacrifice of 42 jawans for @narendramodi to remove #MFN status from Pakistan. Well, will his friend and jetsetting partner Adani now stop selling electricity to Pakistan?”

This has made many fall for the assumption that Adani business conglomerate supplies electricty to Pakistan. Without a second thought, AAP-led Delhi government’s education minister Manish Sisodia tweeted the same message (deleted later), that soon started being shared on Twitter by many people.

Adani group is the largest private thermal power producer in India with an installed capacity of 10,480 MW in four power projects are spread across the states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Karnataka in India. It has not supplied electricity to Pakistan as claimed by miscreants on Twitter.

The company, Adani Power, responded immediately clarifying that it never supplied power to Pakistan as claimed by Sisodia. Here’s what Adani group @AdaniOnline replying to @msisodia stated: “The Adani Group would like to inform you that we do not supply electricity to Pakistan. You must withdraw such incorrect and irresponsible statements.”

Baseless allegations like these impact citizens’ confidence in Indian corporates’ efforts towards nation building. Adani is not supplying electricity to Pakistan. https://t.co/t9wFQA2RYT — Adani Group (@AdaniOnline) February 16, 2019

The truth is that India in 2012 proposed to supply electricity to Pakistan and among the suppliers M/s Adani group was one that came forward to supply electricity to Pakistan.

Soon, representatives of India’s Adani Enterprises visited Pakistan to discuss the sale of up to 4,000 MW of electricity but the proposal was turned down following tensions between the two countries.

Pakistan’s then power minister Khawaja Asif confirmed the news to Pakistan’s Senate (upper house) on October 13, 2014 that representatives of Adani Enterprises Ltd (AEL) visited Pakistan in April 2014 but added that “no further progress is made in the regard.”

Here’s the reply given by Asif to the Senate question on Oct 13, 2014:

AAP’s @PreetiSMenon also make same charge on @gautam_adani as by @msisodia. She realize her mistake but points to 2014 story of Adani group meeting Pak officials? She didn’t read fully. Meeting in 2014 happened in April, during @AamAadmiParty‘s parent-party @INCIndia UPA Govt?‍♂️ pic.twitter.com/11RPqSXfj1 — #Intolerant भारतीय (@goyalsanjeev) February 17, 2019



Conclusion: Though Sisodia soon deleted the tweet quietly, it had already been shared by 517 people. This is another instance of misinformation of truth without proper fact-checks. Our rating is ???? (Mostly False).