A video of gunmen spraying a speeding car with bullets is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows resistance forces in Afghanistan ambushing the Taliban in Panjshir. The 19-second video looks like it was shot on one of the attackers’ bodycam in a desert area.

Many Twitter and Facebook users have posted the video with the caption, “That is the spirit of the resistance. Ambushing the Taliban cars. The terrorist Taliban took power with the help of ISI and tribal politics, but cannot sustain it. #StandWithPanjshir #FreeAfghanistan #PanjshirValley.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this close-range ambush video is at least eight months old. On January 6, 2021, it was posted by a Swedish war veteran on social media as an ambush on ISIS terrorists in Iraq.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here and here.

What AFWA found

Using InVID and reverse image search, we found that the video is present on YouTube at least since January this year.

One verified YouTube channel with over 2 million subscribers, “FUNKER530 Veteran Community & Combat Footage”, posted the video on January 9 with the title, “Speeding ISIS Truck Ambushed At Close Range”.

“An intense video posted to social media by peshmergaswe, a Swedish citizen who traveled to Iraq and Syria as a volunteer to fight ISIS, shows a close range linear ambush of two IS fighters attempting to make an escape in a Toyota Hilux pickup truck. The footage was reportedly filmed in the Haditha Desert of Iraq. The ambush, carried out by Kurdish-led SDF fighters is haphazardly executed, but effective,” says the video description.

The longer version of the video was posted by the website “Funker530.com” on January 7, 2021.

Taking this as a clue, we searched Facebook and Instagram, and tracked down “Peshmergaswe”. The user calls himself a war veteran who fought ISIS in Iraq and Syria. He had posted the viral video on Facebook and Instagram on January 6, 2021, with the caption, “Killing ISIS Gangster style! Iraq IQ”.

India Today could not independently verify who shot the video and where exactly it was shot or other details about the incident. We have tried to contact Peshmergaswe, who’d posted the video on social media. We will update this article as soon as we get a response.

Coming to Afghanistan, the resistance forces as we know today are a loosely based coalition of anti-Taliban militias formed after the fall of Kabul and holding out from Panjshir. As per reports, the Taliban captured major parts of Panjshir only in the first week of September, though sporadic fighting is still on.

And since the video is on the Internet from January, it can be concluded that the viral clip does not show resistance forces ambushing the Taliban in Panjshir.