Stories about aliens have always mystified us, and linking them with the mummies and pyramids of Egypt only adds that extra dose of spookiness. One such post with two photos of mummies has gone viral on social media with the claim that these are mummified aliens from Egypt for which scientists have no explanation till now.

The post claims that one Dr Victor Lubeck, a retired professor from the University of Pennsylvania, has discovered the mummies. “The structure of its skeleton does not resemble that of a human’s body. The face is what looks especially different,” the caption says.

advertisement

“The remains were found surrounded by unusual objects that could not be identified. An anonymous source claimed that the mummy does not originate from Earth and that it has greatly troubled Egyptian authorities, who want to keep it a secret. According to the source, in life, the mummy served as an advisor to Pharaoh Osirunet.

“Governments refuse to admit the implications that such a discovery has for human history, but they still fail to provide the world with significant explanation for it. This mummy isn’t the only discovery that has reinforced the alien rumors,” reads part of the long caption.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral claim is fictitious. These are images of two mummified baby girls found by Egyptologist Howard Carter while discovering King Tutankhamun’s tomb in 1922. DNA tests suggest that Tutankhamun was most likely the father of the two fetuses.

Not an alien

With the help of reverse search, we found these two images in several articles on Pharaoh Tutankhamun’s tomb.

For many centuries, Tutankhamun’s burial place was hidden until Egyptologist Howard Carter discovered the tomb in 1922. The pharaoh who had ruled Egypt for nearly 10 years died at around 19 under mysterious circumstances more than 3,000 years ago.

Carter had found two small coffins in Tutankhamun’s tomb. These were two mummified human fetuses. As per news reports, the Egyptian Supreme Council of Antiquities had released the two undated photos on August 6, 2008.

The department of anatomy at Cairo University had performed autopsies on both the mummies. The postmortem examination revealed that both mummies were female fetuses at five and seven months of gestation.

DNA tests were then carried out to determine whether they were Tutankhamun’s children. Between 2007 and 2009, DNA tests on both mummies showed that Tutankhamun was most likely the father of the two fetuses. The degrees of probability were over 99 per cent as published in an article on American Journal of Roentgenology.

Professor Salima Ikram, an Egyptologist at the American University in Cairo, said in an interview to “Express”, “There was such a high mortality rate for infants and children in the ancient world that it's not surprising. But it is extraordinary to have them carefully mummified, wrapped up, cocooned, put in these coffins and placed in their father’s tomb.”

advertisement

The claim about Dr Victor Lubeck, said to be a retired professor of Pennsylvania University, is bogus. In 2016, the same name had appeared in another claim about aliens and mummies in 2016. That claim was debunked by international fact-check website “Snopes”.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Old video, image shared as that of earthquake that struck Indonesia

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Oops! Twitter’s blue bird crowns the wrong Harnaaz Sandhu