The novel coronavirus pandemic continues to rattle the world, with more than 1,30,000 cases and over 5,000 deaths globally reported. Amid the scare, a social media post is being widely circulated with the claim that Israel has discovered a vaccine for the Covid-19.

Here's the Facebook post.

Viral Facebook post

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that scientists in Israel are still working on developing the vaccine for novel coronavirus.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

What is the claim?

A Facebook user Deepansh¼ Kumar posted the photograph of an injection bottle labeled as "coronavirus vaccine". The text on the photograph read: No more coronavirus death. God bless Israelites. Finally, they claim to discover vaccine for coronavirus Covid-19."

What is the status?

To verify the claim, we ran a search and found several media reports confirming that scientists in Israel are still working on developing the vaccine for the Covid-19.

According to these reports, scientists at Israel's Institute for Biological Research, under the supervision of the prime minister's office, are working on to develop the vaccine. However, it requires a series of tests and experiments that may last many months before the vaccination is deemed effective or safe to use.

The photograph of the injection used in the viral post is actually a stock photo. Israel's MIGAL Research Institute has developed a vaccine for avian coronavirus, Infectious Bronchitis Virus (IBV), which is for chickens and not humans.

What is the process?

According to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the process of drug approval includes laboratory tests, trying the drug on animals and then people to make sure it works and is safe. FDA physicians and scientists then review the drug research and the labeling information on how to use the drug.

In the case of a novel coronavirus, as it has been declared as a pandemic by WHO, it is possible that the Israel government or approving authorities may cut short the process of approval.

Hence, it is clear that the viral post is misleading as Israel is still working on to develop the vaccine for the novel coronavirus.