A thrilling video showing a group of skydivers coming together to form a giant lattice-like formation as they skydive has gone viral on social media. It is being claimed that the skydivers are from the Indian Army.

The archived version can be seen here.

A caption with the video reads: "Hame abhimaan hai, bhartiye sena par. Bharat me Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Maharana Pratap singh jaise veero ka janm hota hai Vaha ki sena ke khoon me veerta hai. (We are proud of our Indian Army. Army of the land where great warriors like Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Rana Pratap are born, is sure to have valour running through its veins.)"

advertisement

The video has also tagged the official Facebook page of ADGPI - Indian Army.

India Today Fact Check has found that the video is not that of Indian Army but it has been shot in Southern California of the US.

In 2015, 202 skydivers set a world record of largest sequential skydiving formation of all time.

The video has already been shared more than 3 lakh times from Facebook pages like 'Ek Hindustani and Mera Bharat'.

Many netizens have praised the Indian Army, believing that the video is from India. However, a few have pointed out that the video is not from India and that false information is being spread.

When we reverse searched the video on Yandex, we found a news article on a website named thekidshouldseethis.com containing the viral video in question.

According to the news article, a group of 202 skydivers from around the world set a record on September 29, 2015. They made lattice-like formation at about 7000 feet above Southern California as they skydived. These skydivers had come from many countries like the US, Russia, Brazil, Italy, France and Germany. The article also mentions that this group broke previous such record set by another group of 122 skydivers.

To confirm that such an event had taken place, we made a search with keywords "202 skydivers in California world record". We found many news articles from prominent media houses which had covered the event.

The Indian Air Force (IAF) has its own skydiving team by the name Akash Ganga which was created in August 1987. Glimpses of their shows can be seen here.

Also Read | This video of IAF skydiver flying in the air will get your adrenaline pumping