Spread the truth:

Many users shared a social media post stating that former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was ranked top in an American survey of the “World’s 50 most honest leaders” by the White House. Manmohan Singh is the sole Indian on the list, according to the post.

The viral tweets and posts are garnering a great deal of attention as the description says, “अमेरिका में जारी दुनिया के 50 सबसे ईमानदार लोगों की सूची में भारत के एक मात्र व्यक्ति डॉक्टर मनमोहन सिंह जी वाे भी पहले स्थान पर.. ।”

Translation: In the list of 50 most honest people of the world released in America, the only person from India Dr. Manmohan Singh ji also ranked first.

On Facebook and Twitter, this statement went viral among Congress supporters.

Facebook

Translation: The number of times I salute you is less.

Twitter

Another user tweeted about the same.

अमेरिका में जारी दुनिया के 50 सबसे ईमानदार लोगों की सूची में भारत के एक मात्र व्यक्ति डॉक्टर मनमोहन सिंह जी वाे भी पहले स्थान पर.. । — Rajesh Mishra (@rajesh_inc) June 29, 2021

Truth

The United States or the White House have not conducted a survey on the “World’s 50 Most Honest Leaders.”

Despite receiving several international awards and appearing in numerous polls, including those conducted by Forbes and the Times, there is no such US study that ranks Manmohan Singh as the world’s most honest person. Adding to this, none of the posts that mention this survey have given out any details regarding the survey.

The Press Information Bureau (PIB), the government’s official public relations body, generally reports when India’s Prime Minister or former Prime Ministers receive an accolade from foreign nations. However, there is no such information released by the PIB of the survey mentioned in the post.

On further investigation we found out that this claim has been doing rounds of the internet since 2018 and has been debunked in the past by Alt News. The same claim surfaced in the name of Narendra Modi in early 2019- 2020 and was again fact checked by India Today’s Anti-Fake News War Room

Like this: Like Loading...

Related