Social media is upbeat about the “bhoomi pujan” at the Ayodhya Ram temple site on August 5, which will be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and major personalities associated with the Ram mandir movement.

In this backdrop, an image of a set of stamps related to Ramayana is going viral on Facebook and Twitter with the claim that they have been released by PM Modi just days before the “bhoomi pujan”. Some verified Twitter handles have also posted the same.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. This set of 11 commemorative postage stamps on Ramayana was released by PM Modi in Varanasi in 2017.

Several users on Facebook and Twitter users have shared the post.

Using a combination of reverse image search and keyword search, we found a tweet from a handle called “@BetterPhilately”, posted on September 23, 2017.

The Twitter user posted a set of three pictures, one of which shows PM Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath holding stamp books. The caption said India Post has issued stamps in two mini-sheets on the Ramayana in Varanasi. The same set of Ramayana stamps that has gone viral now was tweeted by the user.

Taking a clue from this, we searched and found news reports related to the event.

According to a report published in “NDTV” on September 22, 2017, PM Modi released a postage stamp on the different aspects of Lord Rama’s life at the historic Tulsi Manas mandir in Varanasi. This was also tweeted by PM Modi on the same day.

Released postage stamps on the Ramayana. pic.twitter.com/E6wYPh2hmy — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) September 22, 2017

We found that the website of “India Postage Stamps” had released these stamps on the same day, i.e. September 22, 2017.

Hence, it is clear that the viral post claiming that PM Modi released the Ramayana stamps recently is misleading. These stamps were released three years ago.

Also read: Fact Check: Weaver’s suicide wrongly linked to PM Modi and his constituency