Former Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board chairman Wasim Rizvi has recently filed a PIL in the Supreme Court seeking removal of 26 verses from the Quran, which he claims promotes terrorism.

Soon after, a video of some people thrashing a man in police presence is circulating on Facebook with the claim Sikhs in Punjab thrashed Rizvi for hurting the religious sentiments of Muslims with his petition.

advertisement

The caption along with one such video says, “#Punjab_News Waseem rizvi beaten by Sikhs at punjab”.

The voiceover in the video in Kashmiri translates to, “Congratulations to all Muslim brothers. Sikh brothers are beating Wasim Rizvi who filed a case in Supreme Court insulting the Quran. He had to hide inside a shop for his life with the help of the police. This is what happens to people who show hate.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video shows BJP MLA from Punjab Arun Narang being thrashed allegedly by a group of farmers on March 27.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

A number of Muslim groups across the country are condemning the PIL, filed by Rizvi on March 11. On March 19, hundreds of protesters and clerics from both Shia and Sunni communities protested at Delhi’s Jama Masjid demanding his arrest. An FIR was also registered in Bareilly against Rizvi for hurting the religious sentiments of Muslims.

However, we could not find any credible news report stating that Rizvi was manhandled either by Muslims or any other group.

We then did a reverse image search of certain key frames of the video and found a longer version of the same video carried in media reports on March 28.

“Protesting Farmers Thrash BJP MLA, Tear His Clothes In Punjab’s Muktsar,” reads the caption of one such video report published by “India Today”.

According to the report, the incident took place on March 27, when BJP’s Abohar MLA Arun Narang went to Malout to address a press conference. He and other local BJP leaders were surrounded by a group of protesting farmers. Black ink was thrown at them and the protestors also allegedly thrashed the leaders and tore Narang’s clothes.

According to a report by “NDTV” , Malout DSP Jaspal Singh said the protesters were adamant that they would not allow the BJP MLA to hold the press conference, and hence, he was later escorted to a safer place by police.

Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Samyukta Kisan Morcha, BJP and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had condemned the attack.

Chief Minister @capt_amarinder Singh condemns attack on BJP MLA from Abohar, warns of strict action against anyone disturbing state’s peace. CM also urges Prime Minister @narendramodi to intervene for early resolution of farmers’ crisis to prevent further escalation of situation. — CMO Punjab (@CMOPb) March 27, 2021

Hence, it is clear that the man thrashed in the viral video is Punjab BJP MLA Arun Narang and not Shia leader Wasim Rizvi.