On June 26, protesting farmers clashed with police in Chandigarh while they were on their way to the Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum. Police used water cannon to disperse the protesters after they broke through barricades.

Many social media users denounced the police action and spoke out in support of farmers. Some shared pictures of an old lady being forcibly carried by six policewomen and accused Chandigarh police of being anti-farmer and treating civilians in an inhumane way.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the picture to be misleading. The picture was taken in August 2015 during a protest in Punjab’s Patiala. It is not connected to the ongoing farmers’ agitation.

The archived version of the viral post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

A reverse search of the picture led us to reports by “The Tribune” and “Hindustan Times” published in August 2015.

As per these reports, the picture was taken during a clash between some farmers and police who reached Hariau Kalan village in Patiala to vacate a panchayat land “illegally” occupied by some residents. Police and administration teams had court orders to take possession of the land, but unhappy farmers started pelting stones when they started to seal the houses.



To tackle the situation, police resorted to lathicharge and fired tear gas. Farmers said they had a stay order on vacating the land but police were not ready to listen. Twelve farmers and three cops were injured in the clash, according to the news reports.

Hence, it is clear that a six-year-old picture is being circulated as police high-handedness during the ongoing farmers protest.

However, according to “The Tribune” when a video of a boy being “lathicharged and abused” by Chandigarh police on June 26 went viral, city SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said he wasn’t obeying even farmers’ leaders, and thus, “mild force” had to be used.

Police also registered multiple FIRs against farmers’ leaders on several charges, including rioting, over the Chandigarh violence.