Lakhs of Afghans have fled their country since the Taliban took over Kabul in mid August. Neighbouring Pakistan, especially, has seen a steady influx of refugees. So much so that a stampede recently broke out at the Chaman-Spin Boldak crossing between Pakistan and Afghanistan, resulting in one death and closure of the border post.

On social media, a video of arson and rioting is going viral with the claim that Afghan civilians have set a Pakistan border checkpost on fire. The claims further say that Pakistan forces had to retreat after suffering fatalities.

advertisement

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Out of context video from feature film viral as Taliban detaining Afghan citizens

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is old. No such incident has been reported from any check post along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border recently.

AFWA PROBE

We noticed that many users replied to the viral posts, saying the video is one year old. Using keyword search, we found a longer version of the video that was posted on YouTube on July 31, 2020. The video description said the incident took place at the Chaman border crossing.

The Chaman-Spin Boldak border crossing is one of the major points of entry between Pakistan and Afghanistan.

Visuals from the viral video were also carried in a report by “WION”. The report, dated August 1, 2020, narrates an incident in which 22 civilians were killed in cross-border firing as claimed by officials of both countries.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: This picture of man in burqa in pro-Taliban women’s gathering is morphed

The incident took place when the border was closed due to the pandemic. People from both sides were waiting to cross the border to meet their loved ones ahead of Eid-al-Adha.

But as the gates did not open, a quarantine centre and a Pakistan government facility for processing movement at the border were reportedly burnt down by the mob.

The viral claim also talks about two Pakistani soldiers being killed by Afghans. This is true but it happened last month. In August, there were reports of at least two Pakistan soldiers being killed in gunfire from across the Afghan border.

Therefore, it can be concluded that an old video is being shared as Afghans setting fire to a Pakistani army checkpost recently.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Old photo from China shared as passengers pushing plane at waterlogged Delhi Airport