Bhagwant Mann, AAP MP and his party’s chief ministerial candidate for Punjab, has repeatedly faced flak from opponents for his drinking habit. But ahead of elections in Punjab, had he decided to quit drinking from January 1, 2022?

This is exactly what some social media users are claiming while sharing a video of AAP chief and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal praising Mann for pledging to quit alcohol.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video is from a political rally held by AAP ahead of Lok Sabha elections in 2019.

AFWA probe

With the help of keyword search, we found the same speech of Kejriwal uploaded on YouTube by several media outlets in January 2019.

“Bhagwant Mann pledged against drinking during AAP's rally in Barnala and Arvind Kejriwal was full of praises for him,” reads the description of the video uploaded by India TV.

Multiple media outlets had also published reports about this announcement by Mann and Kejriwal’s subsequent response.

According to these reports, while addressing a rally in Punjab’s Barnala ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Mann had announced that he’d quit drinking from January 1 that year.

Mann made this announcement in the presence of party supremo Kejriwal and his mother. “I have taken a vow in the presence of my mother not to drink alcohol for good,” Mann had said.

During his speech, Mann alleged that he had been “unfairly targeted” for being an alcoholic by political opponents. He also said that his mother too had been asking him to quit the habit.

Following this, Kejriwal praised Mann and called his decision a “great sacrifice” for the people of Punjab. A clip from this speech made by Kejriwal is now being circulated as recent.

On January 20, 2019, AAP leader Manish Sisodia had also tweeted about this announcement made by Mann.

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is three years old and not related to the upcoming elections in Punjab.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal in New Delhi)