Spread the truth:

Shashi Tharoor and others tweeted a black and white photo of Nehru and Indira Gandhi in a car surrounded by a huge crowd claiming the photo to be from US, year 1954. His tweet has been retweets approx 4000 times

Nehru & India Gandhi in the US in 1954. Look at the hugely enthusiastic spontaneous turnout of the American public, without any special PR campaign, NRI crowd management or hyped-up media publicity. pic.twitter.com/aLovXvCyRz — Shashi Tharoor (@ShashiTharoor) September 23, 2019

Dheeraj Gurjar, National Secretary of AICC, tweeted it too

ये बात सन 1954 की है जब नेहरू जी और इंद्रा जी अमरीका के दौरे पर थे, न कोई चुनाव प्रचार था न कोई वोटों लालच था, फिर भी अमरीका और भारत के लोगों ने उनका भव्य स्वागत किया इसी लिए आज भी विश्व में गाँधी परिवार के नाम का डंका बजता है। पूरा विश्व गाँधी की विचारधारा पंसद करता है। pic.twitter.com/8EJJKyHF3C — Dheeraj Gurjar (@dgurjarofficial) September 24, 2019

Sunil Jain, Managing Editor of Finanlisal Express quoted Shashi Tharoor’s tweet

Impressive @ShashiTharoor!!!

Not sure about how the US would get @RahulGandhi today, but I guess it's a pity the Indian public certainly don't have the same enthusiasm about Nehru/Indira successors https://t.co/Jjfzu5BlIS — Sunil Jain (@thesuniljain) September 23, 2019

The Facebook post below by Kanwal Chadha has been shared by approx 1000 people.

A Facebook Page Yuva Desh also posted the same image with he same claim.

Truth

Although the photo is genuine but it’s not from US. The photo is from USSR.

This tweet of last year from a Russian claims this of 1955, Magnitogorsk

“Residents of Magnitogorsk welcome the Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru and his daughter Indira Gandhi. Chelyabinsk Region, June 1955.“

Жители Магнитогорска приветствуют премьер-министра Индии Джавахарлал Неру и его дочь Индиру Ганди. Челябинская область, июнь 1955 года. pic.twitter.com/JRTUJcYNqj — Павлик Морозов (@Pablo_mrz) September 23, 2018

From different angle

Shashi Tharoor tweeted accepting his tweet was wrong

I am told this picture (forwarded to me) probably is from a visit to the USSR and not the US. Even if so, it still doesn't alter the message: the fact is that former PMs also enjoyed popularity abroad. When @narendramodi is honoured, @PMOIndia is honoured; respect is for India. https://t.co/9KQMcR0zTD — Shashi Tharoor (@ShashiTharoor) September 23, 2019

Related