A picture of what looks like clothes or blankets packed tightly in plastic wrappers has gone viral on social media with the claim that these are the clothes of people who died of Covid-19 in China, and now, Beijing is shipping them to Africa.

Facebook user "Thee Talkingbook" posted the picture with the caption, "This clothes are those who died in China. Affected with the COVID 19. They are shipping it to Africa. So we need to be Aware."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the photo is false. The picture has been available on the Internet for at least seven years. It has nothing to do with coronavirus.

Till the filing of this story, the post by "Thee Talkingbook" was shared more than 1,500 times. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

OUR INVESTIGATION

Using reverse image search, we found that a Facebook user "Brechó OLD CHIC" posted this image in August 2013. This clearly proves that the viral picture is years old and it can't be related to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.

The picture has been in use for many years on various e-commerce websites with the title 'Used Clothes', for export purposes. The picture is mostly used on trading websites to export second-hand clothes to various countries.

Fact-check website Africa Check had earlier debunked the misleading claim.

CORONAVIRUS IN CHINA AND AFRICA

China has almost recovered from the coronavirus pandemic. Reports say China's Wuhan, where the pandemic began, has no more Covid-19 patients in its hospitals. Restrictions are also being gradually eased out.

China reported almost 83,000 cases of coronavirus infections, with more than 4,600 deaths and nearly 77,500 recoveries.

Africa, on the other hand, fared much better compared to other continents in controlling the spread of Covid-19. Till late on April 27, the whole continent reported below 34,000 cases, with less than 1,500 deaths and more than 10,000 recoveries.

India Today Fact Check is part of IFCN Alliance on Covid-19.