Amid the turmoil in Punjab Congress, an image of Rahul Gandhi with newly appointed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, former CM Amarinder Singh and Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni is circulating on social media, implying a patch-up between warring factions of the Grand Old Party.

The archived versions can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture was taken at a meeting held by Rahul Gandhi with Punjab Congress leaders in 2016.

advertisement

A reverse search of the image in question did not yield us relevant results. We then did a keyword search on the official Facebook pages of leaders seen in the picture and found the same image uploaded on April 10, 2016, on Channi’s Facebook page.

“Punjab Congress team with Sh. Rahul Gandhi ji,” reads the caption of the image.

On the same day, Channi posted another image of him with Rahul Gandhi, with both wearing the same attire as seen in the above image.

In 2016, ahead of Punjab assembly elections a year later, Rahul Gandhi had

held several meetings with state Congress leaders. Channi himself had posted many images from those meetings on his Facebook page.

According to reports (https://economictimes. indiatimes.com/news/politics- and-nation/rahul-gandhi- amarinder-singh-to-jointly- launch-congress-mission- punjab-2017/articleshow/ 51802389.cms?from=mdr), on April 16, 2016, Rahul Gandhi and Amarinder Singh had jointly launched ‘Mission Punjab 2017’ at a meeting of state leaders in Chandigarh.

Recent developments in Punjab

After Amarinder Singh’s exit as Punjab CM, Channi took oath as the new CM on September 20, 2021. Amarinder Singh had resigned following months of infighting with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.

According to reports following Amarinder Singh’s exit, Rahul Gandhi had held a strategy meeting with Ambika Soni and General Secretary (Organisation) KC Venugopal on September 19 midnight.

Rahul Gandhi was also present at the oath-taking ceremony of Channi. Amarinder, however, skipped it, though he conveyed his wishes to the new CM. Though negotiations are on to bring about a truce between the rival factions, it is clear that the viral image is over five years old.

READ: Fact Check: Netizens trip on his namesake, claim Punjab CM Channi was a singer in his youth

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Postal stamp featuring PM Modi shared with misleading claims