A video showing two men being shot at close range in a narrow alley is going viral as a real shooting incident. The video shows three persons dressed up like gangsters shooting two people in what appears to be a narrow lane. The video is viral on social media with two false claims – firstly it claims that it is an incident from Dongri, Mumbai and secondly it claims that it is from Verawal in Gujarat.

One of the captions in Hindi claims the incident is from Dongri, Mumbai and criticizes the government for allowing a murder to happen in broad day light.

Facebook Post | Archive Link

https://twitter.com/kasimtyagi102/status/1368895895060758531

Archive Link

Fact Check-

Fact Crescendo found that the viral video on social media does not show a real life murder incident in broad day light.In reality it is a clip from a movie shoot. Fact Crescendo confirmed that the video is not from Dongri, Mumbai or Verawal, Gujarat but from Mapusa Municipal Market in Goa.

We started our investigation by observing the video very carefully, where we found a hoarding, which says “Anisha’s” in pink colour.

Next, we ran a keyword search with the word Anisha on Google Maps and found several businesses such as makeup studio, mess, salons, interiors, mansions, bridal point, clothing etc with the same name. We started by matching the logos of each business with the screengrab from the video.

We found that an Anisha’s Beauty Salon is located in Mapusa, Goa that had the same logo as the viral screengrab. According to Google Maps, the salon is located in Mapusa Municipal Market in Goa.

Next, we ran a keyword search on Google, which led us to a tweet published by Goa News hub on 7 February 2021, stating that the video is a movie shoot in Mapusa, Goa that is being shared as a real life incident.

Film shooting of a shoot out at Mapusa has created panic on the net as the clip is being made viral claiming to be real life incident. pic.twitter.com/AR2My84m1V — Goa News Hub (@goanewshub) February 7, 2021

Archive Link

Fact Crescendo then contacted Rupesh Samant, Founder and Editor of Goa News hub who confirmed to us that the video is from Mapusa, Goa. He said it does not show any real life incident and it was recorded in beginning of February. He said, “The video was mostly a part of a local movie shoot. There are several video clips which show that the victim in the video gets up and walks away.”

A further keyword search on Youtube led us to a 1:30 seconds clip showing the incident from another angle, which makes it very clear that the video is a movie shooting and not a real life incident. We can spot the camera operator and several people gathered around to watch the shoot. The caption of the video mentions “Mapusa shooting at new movie.” The video was posted on 10 February 2021 and the location is mentioned as Goa.

Below you can see a comparison image between the screengrab of the viral video and the YouTube video where we can see the same men which confirms that the both the videos are of the same incident which was shot from two different angles.

Next, Fact Crescendo contacted Tushar Lotlikar, PI, Mapusa Police Station and Gajanan Prabhudesai, SDPO, Mapusa who confirmed that the video is from Mapusa ,Goa. He said, “The video does not show a real incident of murder taking place in broad day light. It is a clip from a movie shoot that took place in Mapusa Municipal market in the first week of February.”

Next Fact Crescendo contacted Gujarat’s Gir Somnath’s SP, Rahul Tripathi who confirmed us that no such incident took place in Vakhariya bazaar, Verawal, Gujarat. He also told us that he video is not from Gir Somnath.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found that the viral post on social media is False. The viral video on social media does not show a real life incident of a murder taking place in broad daylight but is infact a movie shoot. Fact Crescendo also confirmed that the video is not from Dongri, Mumbai or Verawal, Gujarat but has been shot in Mapusa Municipal Market in Goa.