Close to 200 people have been held, even as Amravati remains under curfew, days after communal tensions flared up in this Maharashtra city. The violence started on November 12 when some Muslim organisations took out a protest march against the violence in Tripura. A day later, the BJP called a bandh that also led to vandalism.

Amid claims and counter-claims, a video of a massive crowd waving saffron flags and dancing in front of an Islamic structure is circulating on social media with the claim that Hindus in Amravati are finally waking up after the violence.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video was shot in 2019 during Ram Navami celebrations in Karnataka’s Kalaburagi.

AFWA probe

Upon closely analysing the video, we found “Asthana Hazrath Sayyid Shah Hasan Qadri” written in Urdu on the religious structure.

Taking a cue from this, we searched on Google Maps and found that the building seen in the video is a dargah in Karnataka’s Kalaburagi. A comparison between the viral video and the image of the dargah uploaded on Google Maps can be seen below.

We further searched the Internet using the above information and found images of Ram Navami celebrations in front of the same dargah tweeted by ANI on April 13, 2019. The caption says, “Karnataka: Visuals from #RamNavami procession carried out earlier today in Kalaburagi. Muslims were seen distributing juice to the devotees of Lord Ram during the procession.”

Karnataka: Visuals from #RamNavami procession carried out earlier today in Kalaburagi. Muslims were seen distributing juice to the devotees of Lord Ram during the procession. pic.twitter.com/m8bnw8DRrX — ANI (@ANI) April 13, 2019

A man in green shirt seen in the viral video can also be spotted in one of the images shared by ANI. The viral video must have been shot by the man in black shirt sitting behind him.

We found several other videos of the same procession from different angles.

A comparison of the above video with the viral clipping can be seen below.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video is of a 2019 Ram Navami procession in Kalaburagi, Karnataka, and not related to the recent communal clashes in Maharashtra’s Amravati.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Stunning artwork shared as sunset on Earth as seen from space

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Tale of two Sobha Singhs! Netizens mix up Padma winner and man who testified against Bhagat Singh