Does Tirumala temple only use the milk of Punganur cows to perform abhishek (ablution with milk) of Lord Venkateshwara at Tirupati? Well, a few social media users have uploaded different videos of cows and claimed that it is of Punganur cow.

It is also being claimed that it is one of the costliest cows which gives 100 litres of milk - used to worship at the temple.

advertisement

Facebook user Anita Gupta uploaded a video of a brown cow roaming in a field and worte in Hindi (translated in English), "This cow costs Rs 12 crore which gives 100 litres of milk every day. This is Punganur cow. Milk of only this cow is used to do abhishek of Lord Tirupati. Just looking at the cow is very auspicious. Share it as much as you can, so that many can see."

Other Facebook users commented with folded hands (emoticons). The archived version of this post can be seen here.

Similarly, another Facebook user NaMo Gunjan put out the same claim using a different video. This time the video was of a white coloured cow who is being decorated and worshipped. The archived version of this post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the trust of the Tirupati temple has its own farm where they have different breeds of cow. It was found that they do not just use milk from Punganur cows but other cow breeds as well.

Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam runs a dairy farm. AFWA contacted the director of the farm -- Harnath Reddy -- who said that there are more than 3,000 cows with them.

"We predominantly have Ongole, Gir and Sahiwal breed of cows whose milk is used at the temple including performing the abhishek. We also do have the Punganur cow but since this breed is near extinction so these are put under protection and conservation at the farm. They give only a few litres of milk. The main aim of our farm is to look after the cows," said Reddy.

AFWA also forwarded the viral videos to Reddy and after looking at them he confirmed that neither of the cows in the viral videos are Punganur. "The white cow is Ongole and the brown cow is the Gir from Gujarat," said Reddy. Punganur cows are diminutive and dwarf and known to be the smallest cattle breed.

AFWA also found a The Hindu report showing that there are efforts being undertaken to protect Punganur breed of cow.

advertisement

The article also speaks about ghee (clarified butter) made from milk of only Punganir cow being used in the worship of Lord Venkatesham. However, Public Relation Officer of the Tirupati Temple Trust Ravi denied that such is the scenario. "Milk of all the cow breeds at the farm is mixed for usage across the trust for various activities. There is no such thing as milk of only one cow is used for a particular activity."

So clearly, the videos of cows that are used in the viral post are not that of Punganur cow. The claim, that milk of only this cow is used to worship Lord Venkatesham at Tirupati, is also not true.