Lathicharge, sit-ups, crawling - police in India have been ruthless in enforcing the coronavirus lockdown. And now, a picture of some people cleaning a lake is going viral with the claim that police in Karnataka are asking lockdown violators to clean up public places as punishment.

Many social media users are also appreciating the idea, saying it will keep public places clean. Facebook page "Awesome things in India" posted the image with a superimposed text that says, "Karnataka Police is making Lockdown Violators to clean public places as Punishment & It's working. This step is very useful for both the society and it's people. This make society a bit more Clean."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral post to be misleading. Though police in Karnataka are indeed punishing lockdown violators by making them clean public places, the picture used in the viral post is three years old and has nothing to do with the lockdown.

Till the filing of this story, the post has been shared more than 2,300 times. The archived version can be seen here. Many other users have also shared this misleading post on Facebook.

AFWA probe

Using reverse search, we found that "Bangalore Mirror" had used this image in an article dated July 3, 2017. According to the news article, people seen in the photo were techies who had voluntarily come to clean Hulimavu Lake in Bengaluru. The volunteers had stepped into the 125-acre lake and pulled out weed and trash from the water body.

However, it is also true that police in Karnataka are punishing lockdown violators by making them clean public places. A report by The Hindu says police in Mandya district have found a unique way of punishing people wandering on the streets - deploying them to clean public places.

One such incident in Kalaburgi was also reported by "Bangalore Mirror" last month.

#LockdownNow: People who came out on the roads were forced to clear roads as a punishment for breaking lockdown rules in Kalaburagi.#karnatakalockdown #Kalaburagi #COVIDIOTS pic.twitter.com/b1fnzGaz1C — Bangalore Mirror (@BangaloreMirror) March 26, 2020

Therefore, it is clear that though such punishments have been reported in Karnataka, but the photo used in the viral post is old.