A video of a man beating up a policeman in a restaurant has been doing the rounds on social media for quite some time. Certain posts claim the man to be Congress MLA Anil Upadhyay from Madhya Pradesh.





India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the man in the video is not Congress MLA Upadhyay but Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor Munish Chaudhary from Uttar Pradesh's Meerut. Also, the incident is more than five months old.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Among others, a Facebook page "Kattar Modi samarthak group se jure aur 51 sathiyo ko jore" uploaded the video in which a man can be seen hitting a policeman in a restaurant and hurling abuses at him.

The video carries a caption in Hindi: "Ye hai Kamal Nath ki Congress sarkar ka vidhayak Anil Upadhyay jo police karmchari ko peet raha hai desh ki rashtrabhakt samaj police ke dwara hi aise vidhayak ko jaldi saja dilwane ke liye social media par pehel karegi [The man beating up a cop is Anil Upadhyay who is MLA in Kamal Nath's Congress government]."

The Facebook page has more than 4.5 lakh members. The video is also viral on Twitter with the same claim.







Twitter user "#RenukaJain Chowkidar" also posted this video which got more than 400 retweets and around 2,300 views before she deleted her tweet.

On a reverse search, we found that the incident took place in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut last year. Mohiuddinpur police outpost in-charge Sukhpal Singh Pawar went to the restaurant, owned by Munish Chaudhary, along with a woman friend for dinner. The duo had an argument with the staff, which later turned into a brawl between Pawar and Chaudhary.

Many prominent media houses had reported the incident. News agency ANI UP also tweeted the same video on October 20, 2018. The councillor was arrested and an FIR filed against him.

#WATCH: BJP Councillor Manish thrashes a Sub-Inspector who came to his (Manish's) hotel with a lady lawyer and got into an argument with a waiter. The councillor has been arrested. (19.10.18) (Note- Strong Language) pic.twitter.com/aouSxyztSa ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) October 20, 2018

Therefore, India Today concludes that the viral video is a few months old, and the man hitting the cop is not Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Anil Upadhyay, but BJP councillor Munish Chaudhary from Uttar Pradesh's Meerut.