On January 26, West Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari tweeted a video showing a Trinamool Congress leader hoisting the party flag and singing the national anthem with others present around him. Adhikari claimed that this TMC leader from Purulia had unfurled the party flag instead of Tricolour on Republic Day.

“Shameful that TMC members are desecrating the National Anthem in the presence of AITC official Ex MLA; Purna Chandra Bauri of Raghunathpur Assembly of Purulia & other leaders. Also, unfurling TMC flag in place of National Flag to celebrate Republic Day is extremely unfortunate,” Adhikari tweeted.

advertisement

The 26-second video has been shared by several Facebook and Twitter users with the same claim.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video does not show the complete event. On Republic Day, Bauri did hoist the TMC flag, but before that, he had also unfurled the national flag on another pole beside the party flag.

The viral posts are archived here, here and here.

Unfurling the truth

Observing the video closely, we found a Tricolour mark on the ground circling the pole where the TMC flag was being hoisted. Almost at the end of the video, we noticed another Tricolour circle drawn on the ground that indicates there could be a second pole beside the TMC flag.

Taking this as a hint, we contacted the TMC leader in question, Purna Chandra Bauri, who can be seen in the video wearing a green kurta and white coat.

Bauri straight away denied Adhikari’s claim and said that he had hoisted the national flag first and then the party flag. “You can see the truth in the other videos and pictures posted on social media,” said the TMC leader.

Bauri is the former MLA of Raghunathpur constituency in Purulia district where this video was shot.

The Facebook page of Raghunathpur TMC, named “Raghunathpurer Gorbo Mamata” (Raghunathpur’s pride Mamata), has posted several pictures of the Republic Day event from the same spot, refuting the claim made by social media users.

The translation of the Bengali post says, “Today some people created a controversy by distorting the truth and cropping the video. If you have the courage, then post the full video.”

Here is the video.

Bauri also sent AFWA another video from the same event that shows him hoisting the national flag.

Comparing the viral video with the one sent by Bauri and pictures posted on the TMC Facebook page, we could identify the same landmarks such as the high-tension electric towers and trees in the background in all three videos and photos. It confirms that all three visual contents are from the same location and event.

As per the TMC leader, he had hoisted the flag on the opposite side of Joychandi Pahar in Raghunathpur on Republic Day. This area has slightly hilly terrain as is evident from the small hillocks seen in the viral video. From Google Maps, we tried to geolocate the place which can be seen here.

Going by these proofs, it can be ascertained that the viral claim of TMC leader Purna Chandra Bauri hoisting a TMC flag in place of Tricolour on Republic Day is wrong. The TMC leader had first hoisted the national flag and then the party flag.