A video of a man taking a bullet and dropping to the ground during celebratory firing is going viral on social media. In the video, the man can be seen getting down from a car to a welcome by a group of people. One of the men is seen firing in the air; later, a bullet goes off accidentally as he is adjusting the gun, leading to the death.

advertisement

It is being claimed that the man killed was a Muslim leader in Pakistan who had returned home after recovering from Covid-19.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is untrue. The incident is from Jordan and the victim had returned home after serving a prison term, when he was being welcomed by family and friends with celebratory firing, leading to the death. He was not a coronavirus survivor.

What AFWA found

Facebook user “Kanaga Sabapathy” shared the 37-second video and wrote in the caption, “A muslim leader recovered from covid 19 returned to his home in Pakistan ..the cries of joy rose ..weapons were fired ..the patient died with an accidental bullet.” The archived version can be seen here.

Using reverse image and keyword searches, we found media reports along with the viral video on the incident. According to these reports, the victim was 46-year-old Sari Salem Wardat. The incident took place in the town of Amrawah, about 100 kilometres north of Jordan’s capital Amman.

Sari was not a coronavirus survivor, but an inmate who was released two weeks earlier as the Jordan government had ordered early release of prisoners involved in less grave crimes to avoid crowding in prisons, and thus, combat the spread of coronavirus.

According to police and family members, Sari was serving an eight-month sentence for carrying an unlicensed weapon. His family was celebrating his return when he was shot accidentally by a relative. Police have detained the shooter and he will likely face a murder charge.

No media report claims that he was a political or religious leader. Also, it is clear that he was not a coronavirus patient.