A music video has gone viral on social media along with the claim that it is the official song for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. The viral video that begins, "Come to Katara..." resembles Shakira's 'Waka Waka' song from the 2010 edition of the tournament in tune and lyrics.

Multiple Facebook users have posted the music video with the caption, "FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 | Official Song".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is just a parody of an old World Cup song. 'Hayya Hayya' (Better Together) by artists Trinidad Cardona, Davido, and Aisha is the official soundtrack of the FIFA World Cup 2022.

The viral posts are saved here and here.

AFWA probe

A reverse image search on the viral song led us to a YouTube channel that had uploaded the same song on February 7, 2020. It was titled "Fifa World Cup 2022 SONG: Waka Waka In Qatar".

The YouTube channel "Qatari Music Vibes" has declared that this song is a parody of the World Cup 2010 song sung by Colombian singer Shakira along with the South African band 'Freshlyground'.

"No copyright infringement intended, all rights belong to FIFA, and Shakira. This NON-PROFIT, and is purely made for parody, and entertainment purposes, and is a celebration of football!," the YouTube channel wrote in the description.

FIFA World Cup 2022 released its official soundtrack 'Hayya Hayya' (Better Together) by artists Trinidad Cardona, Davido, and Aisha in the month of April this year.

As per reports, this will be the first time that the FIFA World Cup soundtrack will feature a multi-song collection, showcasing diverse musical genres.

"The combination of breakthrough US star Trinidad Cardona, Afrobeats icon Davido and Qatari sensation Aisha captures the spirit of the FIFA World Cup and the FIFA Sound strategy by bringing together inspiration from across the globe.", FIFA wrote on its website about the song.

This song was launched on multiple platforms along with FIFA’s YouTube channel.

FIFA launches an official soundtrack in the lead-up to the World Cup each time. On November 21, FIFA World Cup 2022 will kick off in Qatar.

Hence, it is clear that a parody song is circulating on social media as the official soundtrack of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022.