The image does not show Pakistani students using Indian flags to escape from Ukraine instead it shows Indian students entering Hungary from Ukraine.

Many students are stranded in Ukraine after the start of the war. Indian government has launched Operation Ganga for evacuation of Indian students stuck in Ukraine. In this backdrop, an image is circulating on social media shows students sitting in a bus holding the Indian National flag in their hands. Users claim that the image shows Pakistani students holding Indian flag to escape from Ukraine.

The caption of the post reads, “Pakistani students are using Indian flag to escape Ukraine. Jab museebat aati hai to baap hi kaam aata hai.”

Facebook Post

This post is widely circulating on Facebook.

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google; the results led us to a news report published by Deccan Chronicle on 28 February 2022. The viral image can be seen in this news report with a caption that reads, “More batches of Indian students enter Hungary from Ukrainian side at Zahony crossing, travelling onward to Budapest for return to India by AI flight.(PTI)”



According to the report the image shows Indian students who were stuck at Ukraine.

We also came across a tweet by the Indian Embassy in Hungary posted on 26 February 2022. Posting the video of the Indian students seen in the viral image they wrote, “More batches of Indian students enter Hungary from Ukrainian side at Zahony crossing, travelling onward to Budapest for return to India by AI flight today.”

The Indian embassy themselves confirmed the students holding the Indian flag are all Indian nationals.

More batches of Indian students enter Hungary from Ukrainian side at Zahony crossing, travelling onward to Budapest for return to India by AI flight today @MEAIndia @IndiainUkraine @IndianDiplomacy @DDNewslive @airindiain pic.twitter.com/XleEiGwbyH — India in Hungary (@IndiaInHungary) February 26, 2022

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral image on social media to be False. The image does not show Pakistani students using Indian flags to escape from Ukraine. The image shows Indian students entering Hungary from Ukrainian side at Zahony crossing.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)