The image shows three sisters who cleared Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) examination in 2017. They did not clear the UPSC examination.

An image of three sisters with their mother is widely circulating on social media with the claim that the three girls are sisters belonging to the Dalit community who have cleared their IAS examination together. The post further claims that their mother was a widow who worked in the fields. The names of the sisters are Kamla Jatav(32th rank), Geeta Jatav(64th rank) and Mamta Jatav (128th Rank)

The caption of the video says, “#jaibhim All three Dalit sisters became IAS together The three daughters of a widowed mother who work in the fields day and night Kamla Jatav-32th, Geeta Jatav-64th and Mamta Jatav-128th rank】 IAS cleared together.”

(Hindi: #jaibhim तीनों दलित बहिनें बनी एक साथ IAS दिन-रात खेतों में काम करने वाली विधवा मां की तीनों बेटियां, कमला जाटव-32वीं,गीता जाटव-64वीं और ममता जाटव-128वीं रैंक

एक साथ बनी IAS.)

Facebook Post

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google, whose results led us to a news report published by Jagran on 24 November 2017. According to the article, the three sisters Kamala Chaudhary, Geeta Chaudhary, and Mamata Chaudhary have cleared the Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) Examination. They had secured the 32th, 64th, and 128th ranks respectively in the RAS examination. The report also mentioned that the sisters attempted the UPSC Examination but fell short by a few marks. The three sisters belonged from Rajasthan’s Saranga Ka Bas village, their mother; Meera Devi had laboured day and night in the farm fields to educate her daughters. She was also assisted by her son Ram Singh to earn livelihood for the family. The sisters were selected together in the Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) Examination.

You can read reports here, here, here and here.

It is clear that the three sisters in the image have cleared the Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) examination, not the UPSC.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral image to be Partly False. The three sisters in the image have cleared Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) examination in 2017. They did not clear the UPSC examination as claimed in the viral posts.