A screengrab in the name of National Security Advisor Ajit Doval is going viral on the internet.

Further in the screengrab, it is written that “Today, India is suffering from the exact same problem that Israel was suffering from, 5 years ago. There also a crowd of thousands used to gather upon the death of even one terrorist and then they start throwing stones at the Army. The same is happening in India today. To deal with this, Israel had a ‘small meeting’. Mossad Force said that they will solve this problem in just three days. The very next day, Mossad shot only one terrorist at the crossroads in 5-6 different cities. One terrorist was shot at a crossroads. At every intersection of the city, thousands of terrorists started the procession. Mossad only threw three bombs at every procession and there were the dead bodies of thousands of Terrorists. As a result, people in Israel are afraid of forming a crowd today also.

This tactic of Mossad was liked by Russia so much that they have used them many times. Friends, is the time has come that this formula should be applied in India as well?”

Further, a Facebook user Pankaj Singh have shared this screengrab with the caption, “Jai Shree Ram.”

Similarly, many other users have shared this screengrab on the social media handles.

Also Read

Fact Check

On our factcheck analysis we found a post on the Official Facebook Page of Ministry of External Affairs of India, Government of India. In the post it was written that, “Important Alert! Shri Ajit Kumar Doval K.C., National Security Advisor has no official account on Facebook. This is to advise caution against impostor or fake accounts under his name.”

Further, digging more into the matter we found that this is not the first time that what is written in the screengrab went viral. In 2016, also many users have shared the same story of Israel.

Further, comparing this screengrab with other posts on Facebook we found that the format it not same. In the edited post hour is written as hrs, but originally on the Facebook it is written as h

Conclusion

The viral screenshot is fake as there is no official account of Ajit Doval on Facebook.