With elections in West Bengal around the corner, every political party and their supporters are eager to showcase their achievements and development projects before the electorate. On social media, a picture of a residential project is circulating with the claim that the buildings have been constructed for slum dwellers under one of Mamata Banerjee’s schemes.

The picture has been shared with a caption in Bengali that translates to, “Is it true? Does it happen in reality? Slum dwellers of Golf Green have received keys for flats developed under Didi’s ‘Amar Bari’ (My House) scheme. Flats for slum dwellers might seem to be a dream but it has been made true by Mamata.”

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the picture to be misleading. The Bengal government did initiate a housing scheme for slum dwellers along Golf Club Road, adjacent to Golf Green locality in South Kolkata. But the picture used in the post is of a residential complex built by the Bangladesh government for slum dwellers in Cox’s Bazar city.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse image search, we found the original picture on a Bangladeshi news website. This website had uploaded the picture along with an article on July 23, 2020. According to information provided in the website, the picture is of a residential complex built by the Bangladesh government in Cox’s Bazar city.

The complex was constructed under the “Ashrayon Prakalpa” scheme of the Bangladesh government to rehabilitate slum dwellers evicted from Jhau Bagan and Baliari areas on the western side of Cox’s Bazar airport. The slum dwellers were evicted to give way for the airport expansion project.

Several Bangladeshi media had published articles on the same residential project with similar pictures.

To confirm the part about the Bengal government’s scheme for slum dwellers, India Today got in touch with local correspondent Jyotirmoy Dutta. He arranged the original picture of the buildings constructed by the state government on Golf Club Road for slum dwellers.

Hence, we can conclude that though the claim of a residential project for slum dwellers in Kolkata is true, the picture used along with it is of a similar scheme by the Bangladesh government for evicted people.

(With inputs from Srijit Das)