After India bowed out of the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2021, the country’s cricket fans were much invested in Pakistan’s performance in the tournament.

On Thursday, soon after Australia’s victory against Pakistan in the T20 semi-final, Indian fans started lauding the Australian team, especially wicketkeeper and batsman Matthew Wade for his outstanding performance.

In this context, a video of a young man in an Australian jersey chanting “Bharat Maata Ki Jai” and “Vande Mataram” started circulating on social media with the claim that it shows an Aussie fan cheering for India after Pakistan’s defeat. In the video, the man can be heard leading the sloganeering with several Indians joining him in unison.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. This video is from a test cricket series played between India and Australia in January 2021 at Brisbane.

An archived version of a similar post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

With the help of the InVid tool and appropriate keywords, we found the same video shared by multiple social media handles in January this year as from the Gabba test. The Border-Gavaskar Trophy, a Test cricket series played between India and Australia every two years was held from January 15 to 19 at Gabba, Brisbane.

A Facebook page called ‘World Cricket Fans’ had also posted the same video on January 18 crediting it to one Ashutosh Misra.

“While it's raining at the Gabba, you don't want to miss this Australian Fan chanting Bharat mata ki jai” read the caption to the video.

We further searched and found the same video tweeted by the handle Dr Ashutosh Misra (@ashutoshmisra70) on January 18, 2021.

In the comment section of the video, Misra mentioned that the video was shot by him.

We then reached out to Misra who currently lives in Australia. He confirmed to us that the video is from the Gabba test early this year.

“The video was shot by me on the fourth day of the test match. There were many Australian fans who were cheering for India whenever the Indian team performed better. The man seen in the video was also an Aussie fan. He was yelling at the top of his voice in support of the Indian fans. His pronunciation was also too good. This fascinated me. That’s the reason why I shot the video,” Misra said.

Misra is the CEO of the Institute for Australia India Engagement (About Us Institute for Australia India Engagement (IAIE)) and the National Sports Chair of Australia India Business Council (Dr Ashutosh Misra - National Chair for Sports Chapter, AIBC).

advertisement

He also shared with us a few other videos shot by him from the same stadium during the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. The same man chanting “Vande Mataram” can also be seen towards the end of the videos shared by Misra.

A comparison between this video with the Gabba cricket ground on Google Earth confirms that the video in question is indeed from Gabba.

A Google Street video of the cricket ground can be seen here.

We also found another video of the same man chanting “Vande Mataram '' uploaded by a Facebook page called ‘Indian Cricket Stadiums’ in January 2021 as from the Gabba test.

It is hence clear that the video in question is more than 10 months old and is from Australia. The video has nothing to do with Australia’s recent T20 win against Pakistan in Dubai.