Policemen across the country have had a tough time enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown, often having to deal with the public’s frayed tempers. You may have come across many reports of incidents where the men in uniform had to face the wrath of people in their line of duty.

Another video is now being circulated where a policeman is being thrashed by several men. It is being claimed that the incident took place in Hyderabad’s Kondapur area.

advertisement

A Facebook user posted the video with the caption, “This is how the Police force is treated by the common peace loving citizens in hyderabad, kondapur on 29.05.2021.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AWFA) has found that the incident is not a recent one from Hyderabad but took place in Ahmedabad in October last year.

The video is also being shared on Twitter with similar claims. The archived versions can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Using keywords, we found a report by “Navbharat Times” published on October 21, 2020. This report had a still of the video going viral.

According to the report, five people were passing along the road in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, when a drunk policeman started arguing with them. The group then thrashed the policeman for misbehaving.

We found another video report published by “Zee 24 Kalak” on the same day, claiming that a police constable was publicly beaten in Ahmedabad.

India Today reached out to JP Jadeja, sub-inspector at Sola police station under whose jurisdiction the incident took place. Jadeja also confirmed that the incident took place in Ahmedabad. “A case was registered and charge sheet filed against those who thrashed the policeman that night. The drunk policeman was suspended,” he added.

After the claim started circulating rapidly on social media, Cyberabad Police too put out a clarification on their official Twitter handle, saying no such incident took place in Kondapur or anywhere in Cyberabad.

Fake news



A video of some persons beating supposedly a police personnel at some unknown location is being circulated in social media as that of the Kondapur area of Cyberabad.

It is clarified that no such incident has taken place anywhere in Cyberabad and this news is fake. pic.twitter.com/DQpHBtxzde — Cyberabad Police (@cyberabadpolice) May 29, 2021

Hence, it is clear that the video of a policeman being beaten up by some men is from Ahmedabad, Gujarat, and it was shot in October last year. Some social media users are falsely claiming the incident to be a recent one from Hyderabad’s Kondapur area.

(Inputs by Sonali Khatta)