A post in the name of Draupadi Murmu is becoming fiercely viral on social media. Users sharing this post are claiming that Draupadi Murmu has declared that her first duty after becoming the President is to declare India as a Hindu Rashtra. The user is writing quoting Draupadi Murmu- “After becoming the President, my first duty will be to make this nation a Hindu Rashtra. Long live Rama”

This post is being shared fiercely on social media. There are some accounts in which Draupadi Murmu’s photo is attached, she has been named Draupadi Murmu. Although the spelling of their username is different. We are giving links of many such posts here.

Accounts in the name of Draupadi Murmu-

https://twitter.com/DraupdiMurmu__/status/1548157194549354498?s=20&t=r16XKlMNUAKxtkMKgfermw

राष्ट्रपति बनने के बाद मेरा प्रथम कर्तव्य इस राष्ट्र को हिंदू राष्ट्र बनाने का होगा।



जय श्री राम 🙏🚩 — काजल राजपूत हिंदू शेरनी 🦁 (@Hindu_Kajal_) July 16, 2022

At the same time, many users are sharing this statement of Draupadi Murmu.

राष्ट्रपति बनने के बाद मेरा प्रथम कर्तव्य इस राष्ट्र को हिंदू राष्ट्र बनाने का होगा।

द्रोपदी मुर्मू



जय श्री देव 🙏🚩 pic.twitter.com/FlpJawWhGE — Sushil Kumar Jha (@Dr_kashyap11) July 17, 2022

Fact Check:

To check this news, we did some keyword searches on Google. But we did not get any news in this regard from any media organization. After this, we started checking the official handle of Draupadi Murmu on Twitter. During this, we got many handles, but all handles are parodies or fake handles. Murmu has no handle on these.

At the same time, all BJP leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister, JP Nadda, Rajnath Singh congratulated Murmu for being made the Presidential candidate, but no one mentioned Murmu’s account.

At the same time, the account from which this tweet has been made, that account is currently not present on Twitter.

Conclusion:

Our fact check proves that after Draupadi Murmu became the President, the statement of declaring India as Hindu Rashtra has not been made. Hence the claim being made by social media users is fake.

Claim- Draupadi Murmu said the first duty to declare India a Hindu nation

Claimant- Social media users

Fact Check – Fake