DSP Faridabad confirmed to Fact Crescendo that both the victim and accused are Hindus. This video does not show atrocities against the minority in India.

A horrifying video showing two men mercilessly attacking another man with a sledgehammer on a road in Faridabad, Haryana in broad daylight is widely circulating on social media. Some users claim that this attack shows atrocities of Muslims in India. It is being claimed that the attacks were done due to communal hatred.

We can see the two men brutally thrashing a man who has been pinned down by another. Users claim that this kind of atrocities against minorities are often carried out in India.

The caption of the post mentions, “And this is India on Daily basis against minorities. It is shameful that US, Human rights orgs and Western media are keeping a blind eye for their own business benefits: #Faisalabad #SolidariTea4Kashmir

Facebook Post | Archive Link

ALSO READ- Video of a brawl in Bangladesh viral as Muslim mob protesting outside Kali temple in Kolkata

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google, which led us to news reports published by India Today on December 6. The incident took place at Sector-21D in Badkhal Lake Chowk in Faridabad. The arrested accused, identified as Lalit and Pradeep, are residents of Fatehpur Chandila village. According to the DSP the accused broke the leg of the victim with a hammer and rod and were running away after shooting a young man in a car. He also added that the police team has arrested the two accused– Lalit and Pradeep– from the spot, while the third accused, Sachin, managed to flee. The police have registered a case of attempt to murder and firing with illegal weapons.

Fact Crescendo contacted DSP Faridabad Nitish Aggarwal who confirmed to us that the incident is not communally motivated. The name of the victim is Manish Gurjar and the three accused are Lalit, Pradeep and Sachin who belong from the same religion and caste. The incident took place due to personal enmity and both the victim and the accused are also from the same religion. There is no angle of crime due to communal hatred. All three accused have been arrested and a case has been registered. The victim is admitted in the hospital and is undergoing treatment.

ALSO READ- Images of police committing suicide in Prayagraj falsely shared with a communal claim.

We also found a video of a press conference conducted by the Faridabad police on 6 December, which mentioned that accused and the victim were Hindus. They also mentioned that the victim named Manish was beaten up over personal enmity.

We also got access to the FIR that has been registered for this case, which clearly mentions the names of the accused and victim. The victim’s father has registered the FIR.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video on social media to be False. The assault was because of personal animosity between the accused and the victim. This incident has been falsely shared with a communal spin. Both the victim and accused are Hindus.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)