An emotional video is being circulated on social media with the claim that Muslims in Jaisalmer, killed Hindus and burnt their houses after Congress's victory in the recent Rajasthan assembly election.

Some middle-aged women are seen crying in the video, describing how their houses have been vandalised. The message attached with the video reads -

"Rajasthan me Congress sarkar bante hi Pakistan se lage Jaisalmer ke Daarti gaon mein shantidoot muslimo dwara Marwari hinduon ke ghar jalaye gaye aur do hinduon ko maut ke ghaat utaar diya".

advertisement

(English Translation - Immediately after formation of Congress government in Rajasthan, Muslims burnt houses of Marwari Hindu community and killed two Hindus in Jaisalmer's Daarti village.)

India Today TV's Fact Check team found that the claim in the video is false. The video is not of Rajasthan but of Noakhali district in Bangladesh and dates back to March, 2013.

The 1.08-minute long viral video shows two grieving women in a place that looks like it has been vandalised and set ablaze. The video has been shared over 2,000 times from different Facebook accounts.

We found the longer version of the viral video with the help of the verification tool, Reverse.photos. The video was uploaded in March, 2013 titled - 'Muslims attacked 76 Hindu families and 5 Temples in Noyakhali, Bangladesh, Hindus are'

The 8-minute long video has some striking points which prove that the incident took place in Bangladesh.

In the beginning of the video, some women can be heard talking in Bengali language. They are narrating how their houses were burnt and looted in the incident. India Today TV's correspondent in Bangladesh confirmed that the Bengali dialect is typically of Noakhali district. Noakhali is a district in south-eastern Bangladesh.

At 4.02 minutes, we can see, 'Sri Sri Rajganj Saarvjanik Hari Seva Ashram Begumganj, Noakhali' is written on the temple wall in Bengali.

At 6.49 minutes, a board can be seen in the video which reads - 'Police super office, Noakhali'.

An article published in March, 2013, by a website named 'Hindu Human Rights' had also used the viral video. The article narrated how the Hindu temple and houses were attacked by the Jamaat-e-Islami activists in Begumganj, Noakhali.

On searching the keywords 'attack on Hindu families in Noakhali', we found several other media reports of March 2013.

According to these reports activists of Jamaat-e-Islami set ablaze temples and houses of the Hindu community in different parts of the Bangladesh, besides Noakhali around the same time. These attacks were the fallout of death penalty given to a senior Jamaat leader Delwar Hossain Sayedee for committing war crimes in 1971.

India Today confirmed that a video from Bangladesh showing atrocities was falsely attributed to Rajasthan.