A twin strike by Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA) rebels on Pakistani army posts at Panjgur and Noshki claimed the lives of nine soldiers earlier this month. Following the attack, Islamabad denied claims by the insurgents that at least a hundred soldiers were killed in the attacks.

A photo shared by pro-BLA handles on social media claims to be the coffins of Pakistan personnel killed in the Panjgur operation. "#PakistanArmy Daal koor army dead bodies from Panjgur not countable more then 100 body's some of body's SSG commands body's," one such tweet read.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim to be misleading. The image shared was shot in 2016, when suicide bombers infiltrated the Quetta police training academy and killed 59 people.

Similar posts are archived here and here.

AFWA probe

When we reverse-searched the image, we found it used in an article by prominent Pakistan news outlet Dawn. The report was a photo story from October 25, 2016, on the devastation caused by the terrorist attack.

The photo now in circulation, claimed to be from Panjgur, was included in the photo story with the caption, "Coffins of cadets killed during the attack on the police training college being lined up for funeral prayers at the General Musa Stadium — APP."

The same photo was also used by the news website called Urdupoint.com with similar information. "QUETTA: Bodies of martyr cadets of Police Training Centre carnage being brought at Musa Stadium Quetta Cantt for funeral prayers," the caption accompanying the picture read.

The Islamic State had reportedly carried out the deadly attack with the support of Afghanistan based-Lashkar-e-Jhangvi. On the night of October 24, 2016, three heavily armed militants entered the academy while around 700 cadets were asleep.

Two attackers detonated their suicide vests, causing most of the casualties, while the third was killed before he could carry out the suicide-bombing. Over 150 people were injured in the incident. You can read more about the attack here and here.

Thus, it is clear that the photo of coffins wrapped in Pakistani flags was not of the mortal remains of soldiers killed in the attack by the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA) earlier this month. The image was taken after the 2016 suicide-bombings at Quetta's police training academy.