An image is being virally shared on social media with the claim that it shows journalist Rana Ayyub being picked up by the police during a protest. It showed a sloganeering lady being forcibly taken away by police personnel in what seemed to be a road picketing.

"Jinnah was always right ..what a brave girl ..salute to her courage Rana Ayyub may ALLAH be with her," the viral image was captioned by multiple users.

advertisement

The post was shared by many, including verified Twitter handles.

Jinnah was always right ..what a brave girl ..salute to her courage @RanaAyyub may ALLAH be with her pic.twitter.com/qD1eNv34iE — Shaan Shahid (@mshaanshahid) June 14, 2022

Similar claims have been archived here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim was misleading. The lady in the image is not Rana Ayyub, but student activist Aysha Renna. The photo was taken in Kerala's Malappuram earlier in June.

AFWA Probe

A reverse search of the photo took us to the Facebook page 'Fraternity Movement Kerala'. The Fraternity Movement is the student's wing of the political outfit Welfare Party of India.

The page had several Malayalam news reports that had used the now viral photo. They had collected several news reports of a police crackdown on a protest arranged by their members in Malappuram district on June 12. As per these reports, it showed national secretary Aysha Renna being manhandled by the Kerala Police.

As per these reports, the Fraternity organised the protest to condemn the UP police action against their leader, Afreen Fatima. Activist Afreen Fatima's house in Prayagraj was razed to the ground by the UP government. This came after Afreen's father, Javed Mohammad, was named by the UP police among the conspirators of the June 10 violence that saw stone pelting and the torching of vehicles.

On Aysha's Facebook handle, a poster of the 'National Highway Blockade' in Malappuram on June 12 was retrieved.

We found several television reports that confirmed that the woman in the video is Aysha Renna and not Rana Ayyub.

After confirming the protestor's identity, we checked to see if the police had arrested Rana Ayyub for any public protest. However, there has been no recent information on the same.

This helped us to conclude that it is the photo of a student protest from Kerala that is being shared as that of police action against journalist Rana Ayyub.