A spectacular video of a colourful firework display on a tall building is being widely shared on social media with the claim that it was a part of the Tokyo Olympics 2020 inauguration ceremony.

Posting this video, RJ Golmaal Gagan from 94.3 My Fm wrote, “This is so Amazing! Tokyo fireworks on Olympics inauguration”.

The archived version of this post can be seen here.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is not related to the Olympics and it is not recent as well. It shows a firework extravaganza which was put up in Taiwan’s iconic skyscraper ‘Taipei 101’ on the occasion of New year celebration on 31 December 2020.

This claim is viral on Facebook.

AFWA probe

On reverse searching the keyframes of the viral video, we found that several Taiwanese YouTube users had shared similar visuals in the month of January this year.

We also found a similar video on the YouTube channel of ‘Taiwan News’. ‘Taiwan News’ had also published a report on this event. As per the report, a five-minute fireworks display was conducted to welcome the arrival of 2021 in Taipei 101, Taipei. This year, the show displayed 16,000 fireworks as a tribute to Taiwan's frontline medical workers.

On comparing the visuals from the viral video with the ‘Taiwan News’ video report, we noticed many similarities.

We found many similar videos of the new year celebration on the official Facebook page of Taipei 101. These videos were recorded live on December 31, 2020.

According to the Olympics website, the official venue for conducting the opening and closing ceremony of Tokyo Olympics 2020 is ‘The National Stadium of Tokyo’. It is noteworthy that this stadium looks completely different from Taipei 101.

The actual visuals of the firework show from the Tokyo 2020 Olympics opening ceremony can be seen in the below video report by Reuters.

Thus, it is clear that around six-month-old fireworks show video of the New Year Celebration in Taiwan is being falsely shared as the inaugural ceremony of Tokyo Olympics 2020.

READ | Fact Check: Wrestler Priya Malik has won gold medal but not at Tokyo Olympics

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Old image from Dhaka shared as blood-filled street in India post Eid sacrifices

WATCH | Watch: Video of 2011 Japan tsunami circulated as footage of China floods