A social media post claiming that a foreign couple danced to the tune of Radha-Krishna is being widely circulated . The post accompanies a video of a couple, dressed in Indian attire, ice dancing to lord Krishna song. Through this article let’s fact-check the authenticity of the video shared in the post.

Claim: Video of a foreign couple dancing to Lord Krishna song. Fact: The viral visuals actually show US ice skating dancers Meryl Davis and Charlie White, performing to Bollywood songs in the 2010 AT&T U.S. figure skating championship. Several news articles have reported their performance to Bollywood songs back then. The duo also performed to Bollywood songs during the 2010 Winter Olympic Games held in Vancouver. The lord Krishna song is digitally added to their 2010 U.S. figure skating championship, performance visuals. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.

The viral visuals show American ice dancers Meryl Davis and Charlie White, performing in the 2010 AT&T U.S. figure skating championship. However, in this competition, the duo danced to Bollywood songs and not to Lord Krishna’s song as claimed.

Reverse image search of the screen shots of the viral visuals yielded a lengthier version of the viral video on YouTube. This video was uploaded on YouTube in 2011 and the accompanying description of the video reads ‘The Final Performance of Meryl Davis & Charlie White at 2010 AT&T U.S. Figure Skating Championship.’

Further, the video footage displays a pop up disclaimer in line with the description of the video. However, the lengthier version shows the duo dancing to Bollywood songs but not to Indian devotional songs.

Taking a cue from this YouTube video, Google search with relevant keyword yielded multiple news articles which reported the 2010 U.S (here, here & here) figure staking championship. Even these articles have reported that Meryl Davis and Charlie White have danced to Bollywood songs like ‘Kajra Re’, ‘Silsila Ye Chahat Ka’, and ‘Dola Re Dola’.

Further, the duo danced to the same Bollywood songs during the 2010 Winter Olympic Games held in Vancouver. Visuals related to this event can be seen here and here.

The above information implies that Lord Krishna devotional song is digitally added to a video of Meryl Davis & Charlie White’s performance in the 2010 Figure Skating Championship. Further, we could not find any visuals of the duo dancing to any Indian devotional songs.

To sum it up, these visuals actually show American ice dancers performing to Bollywood songs in 2010; The devotional song is digitally added to this performance.