A video of a parachute landing gone wrong is circulating on social media with the claim that this is a Pakistani paratrooper instructor with training from China who’s facing a hard time controlling the parachute and whirling around in the wind.

Several Twitter and Facebook users have posted the 44-second video where a paratrooper is seen facing trouble while touching the ground. The caption of the post says, “Pakistani paratroop instructor demonstrating a perfect landing trained in China.”

advertisement Pakistani paratroop instructor demonstrating a perfect landing - trained in China.



Follow @bhaiyaji_kahin pic.twitter.com/R7jeNKiRuC — _ (BJP) (@bhaiyaji_kahin) September 6, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the video to be eight years old. This is a clipping of a Russian paratrooper facing trouble in parachute landing during a training exercise.

Multiple Facebook users have posted the video believing the claim to be true. The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID and Yandex reverse image search, we found that the viral video was shared mostly by Russian social media sites for several years.

We found a longer version of the video on a website where the title in Russian translates to, “Taming the parachute”. The video was uploaded on September 28, 2012. Here the paratrooper can be seen struggling with the chute; later, another person comes to his rescue but in vain.

The same video was also uploaded on YouTube on September 25, 2012. The title reads, “Russian Parachute Landing FAIL”.

Another website called “gfycat” also titled this video, “Russian soldier parachute trouble GIF”. Some Russian Facebook users also posted this video later saying it was a Russian parachute landing that went wrong.

Taking this as a clue, we searched the Internet with the help of keywords and found the incident was published along with the same video in “Military.com” on September 24, 2012. The brief says, “A Russian recruit has a nightmare of a parachute landing during a training exercise.”

Though we could not find the location or further details regarding the incident, but all related information makes it clear it involved Russian troops and is at least eight years old. There is no credible information that claims any Pakistani paratrooper was involved in the incident.