Several districts of Bihar are reeling under floods and thousands of people have been displaced as major rivers are flowing above danger levels. Amid this, an aerial shot of a huge region submerged in floodwater is being circulated on social media with the claim that it is from Bihar.

The picture has been shared along with a sarcastic caption that says, “Exclusive image of Bihar after the investment of 1.25 Lakh Crore as promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this particular picture is from Kolhapur in Maharashtra, and was taken last year.

The claim was originally posted on Twitter and its screenshot is being widely shared on Facebook. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Reverse-searching the viral image, we found it in an article by “BBC News” published in August last year. In this report, the image was used in a video about the flood situation in Maharashtra and Karnataka.

Taking a cue from this, we searched for flood images from the two states from last year. We found an article by “Hindustan Times” where the image was used. The caption of the picture says, “Hundreds of villages in Kolhapur and neighbouring Sangli were flooded after heavy rains in August.”

Floods wreak havoc in Bihar

Bihar is fighting the twin scourge of floods and the Covid-19 pandemic. At a time the whole state is under lockdown, over three lakh people in eight districts in north Bihar have been affected by the floods.

The eight affected districts are Darbhanga, East Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul and Kishanganj. Over 100 villages have been reportedly inundated in Darbhanga alone, one of the worst affected districts due to the floods.

News agency ANI has shared some latest images of the flood situation in Bihar.

Bihar: Several parts of Sitamarhi affected due to floods. India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy rainfall in the area for today and tomorrow. pic.twitter.com/Sixx7T3SaH— ANI (@ANI) July 21, 2020

Therefore, we can conclude that while the flood situation in Bihar is indeed grim, the viral aerial shot being passed off as from the state is not true. It is an old image from last year’s floods in Maharashtra.