Spread the truth:

An image of few people who appear to be soldiers with flags and a banner, near a lake with a vehicle is going viral on social media. Claims are that these are Chinese soldiers who are displaying the Chinese flag in Galwan Valley, near Pangwan lake in Ladakh. This post came became viral amidst the tension between India and China near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.

Several posts with the image was captioned, “Chinese army displaying their flag in Galwan valley near pangwan lake Ladakh As per Indian media China pitched more than 100 tents & thousands of troops in Galwan valley…”

A Facebook Profile named Moosa Manzoor posted the image with a caption on the similar lines and received around 140 shares and was liked around 500 times.

Archive

Several Facebook users posted the image and caption with a similar narrative.

Several tweeted the image with a similar caption on Twitter. A twitter handle named “Hanief Manzoor Dar” also tweeted the post and garnered around 500 likes.

Archive A Twitter profile named “yassar emani” tagged the PM Narendra Modi, the PMO, few journalists and the United Nation with the image and caption. Archive Truth The claim is False. The image was seen in the website called “Tibet Sun” which published an article of Times News Network on July 13, 2019. The headline of the article read, “China objects Dalai Lama’s birthday celebration close to border in Ladakh”. The caption below the image read “A purported photo of Chinese troops in civilian clothes planting a Chinese flag on Indian territory as residents of a village in Ladakh close to the border celebrate the 84th birthday of the Dalai Lama on 6 July 2019. The banner read “Ban all activities to split Tibet”, according to Indian officials in New Delhi”. “The Statesman” also used the viral image in its article uploaded on July 13, 2019 that titled,”Congress expresses concern over Chinese incursion into Indian territory”. Therefore it is clear that the viral image is not about the recent standoff between India and China in Ladakh but is an old image.

Related