India lost 20 Army men in a bloody face-off with China late on Monday night at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. The Chinese side also suffered unconfirmed fatalities. Amid this, a video going viral on social media shows some Indian soldiers crying, while others are trying to soothe them. Netizens are claiming that Indian soldiers broke down after the clash with Chinese troops.

advertisement

Pakistani Twitter handle @HinaRKharal tweeted the 37-second video, linking it to the crisis along the Line of Actual Control. The caption along with the video says, "Indian soldiers face off' #GalvanValley#IndianArmy#LadakhBorder#ChinaIndiaFaceoff".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. The video is more than one year old and from Kashmir. The CRPF men seen in the video got emotional after losing some of their colleagues in an encounter with terrorists.

The video has been shared by some other social media users too.

Using keyword search, we found that the video was shot after the Handwara encounter in March last year. The viral video carries the stamp of Twitter handle "@rifatabdullah". We found that Rifat Abdullah is a journalist in Kashmir and he had tweeted the video on March 2, 2019.

CRPF men broke down after bodies of their colleagues were put in a Vehicle. Two CRPF men and two J&K Police men were killed in an Encounter in Langate Handwara yesterday. Ye Kashmir main ab roaz ki kahani hay. Aakhir kab tak pic.twitter.com/ymCgE2xzCs — Rifat Abdullah (@rifatabdullahh) March 2, 2019

The caption of Rifat's video says, "CRPF men broke down after bodies of their colleagues were put in a Vehicle. Two CRPF men and two J&K Police men were killed in an Encounter in Langate Handwara yesterday. Ye Kashmir main ab roaz ki kahani hay. Aakhir kab tak".

News channel "TV9 Kannada" had also used the video in March last year with the same information. Five security personnel, including three from CRPF and two from Jammu and Kashmir Police, were martyred in the operation. Two terrorists were neutralised, and a civilian was also killed during the 56-hour encounter.

Hence, it is confirmed that the video has nothing to do with the recent flare-up in Ladakh between Indian and Chinese troops.