Colonel Viplav Tripathi, the Commanding Officer of Khuga Battalion of the Assam Rifles, his wife, their 8-year-old son, and four other soldiers were killed during an ambush by militants in Manipur's Churachandpur district on November 13. According to reports, it was one of the deadliest attacks in the region in recent times.

In this context, two photos are viral on social media with the claim that they are of the recent violence.

advertisement

Multiple verified Facebook accounts including that of union ministers and other legislators have also shared these images. In one image, security forces can be seen standing in front of a burned army convoy, while the second image shared along with a family picture of Colonel Viplav Tripathi, looks like army personnel removing branches of a tree from the road.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that both the images are old and not related to the recent attack in Manipur.

AFWA probe

We did a reverse search of the first image of the burned convoy and found that it was shared by multiple news reports in 2015.

As per these reports, the image is from a militant attack that took place in Manipur's Chandel district in June 2015.

According to a report by NDTV, as many as 18 armymen were killed and at least 11 were injured after militants ambushed their convoy.

We found the second image in question carried by multiple media reports over the years with stories related to militant attacks. At least since 2014, the image has been in circulation with credit to news agency Reuters.

We then did a keyword search on Google and found the same image carried along with a set of other images on the Reuters website in August 2014.

According to Reuters, the image is from the clashes that took place due to a territorial dispute between villages straddling Assam and Nagaland.

The caption of the photo reads, "Indian army personnel remove branches of a tree which were thrown by the protesters to block the road at Golaghat district in the northeastern Indian state of Assam."

Multiple media outlets had also reported the incident. According to Dhaka Tribune, the image is from the fifth day of unrest between Assam and Nagaland. On the fifth day, defying the curfew, residents from the Golaghat district had attacked the police alleging the cops failed to protect them from attacks by Naga tribesmen.

It is hence clear that both the images are old and not related to the recent attack in Manipur that killed Colonel Viplav Tripathi, his family, and four other soldiers.