A viral video claiming to show Fox News reported that US President Donald Trump tested positive for COVID-19, is doctored as the ticker and audio of the clip have been manipulated.



In the 11 seconds clip, a Fox News breaking news segment plays where the anchor appears to be saying the president has tested positive for Coronavirus.

"Just a moment ago Fox News Alert, The White House medical team confirming President Trump has confirmed positive for the Coronavirus," the anchor can be heard saying in the clip.

The video is being shared with the caption, "Fox News.... Trump test positive for covid-19."

Click here to view, and here for an archive.

BOOM also received the clip on its WhatsApp helpline number (7700906111) inquiring about it.









Also Read: No, The United States Has Not Banned TikTok

FACT-CHECK

A look through Fox News's YouTube channel shows that the viral clip has been manipulated as the original news report was about a valet to Trump testing positive for COVID-19.

The word 'valet' has been edited out from the news ticker and audio of the clip that was uploaded on May 7, 2020, to Fox News's YouTube channel.









From the six seconds to 17 seconds mark, one can hear the same audio and visual in the viral clip except that 'a valet to' can be heard and seen in the ticker which changes the context.

"Just a moment ago Fox News Alert, The White House medical team confirming that a valet to President Trump has confirmed positive for the Coronavirus," says the anchor in the original clip.

We also found news reports stating that a member of the US Navy who serves as one of Trump's personal valets testing positive for coronavirus reported CNN on May 7, 2020. Additionally, we did not find any news reports on Trump testing positive for COVID-19.

Satire to misinformation



We also found a sarcastic clip which is 18 seconds long, and follows the same sequence as the viral clip, however after 11 seconds mark one can hear a sexual moaning sound and a 'no aprendes!' meme shows up which when translated from Spanish reads, "You don't learn".

we knew it was gonna happen pic.twitter.com/in9JDGldIg — coronaaa ➐ (@BigBuuly) May 15, 2020

Comparison:

Also Read: Did Donald Trump Tweet About Barack Obama's Handling Of H1N1 In 2009?