This video does not show robots performing at Disneyland in Shanghai. They are Bachata dancers from Russia.

A video showing a sensual dance performance by two dancers is widely circulating on social media with the claim they are robots performing at Disneyland in Shanghai. It is also said that the audience stood in a line to watch this performance for 4 hours and a ticket cost around 75 dollars.

The caption of the post mentions, “This is not a boy or girl, they are a robot, working in a Disneyland Shanghai theatre. It takes $75 for a ticket to see them, takes four hours to buy for a five-minute show to watch.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google, whose results led us to the same video posted on Youtube on 26 August 2020 with the caption, “Dima and Dilara. Bachata. Moscow.” According to the details of the video and the YouTube channel, the dancers are Dima and Dilara who are Bachata dancers from Moscow, Russia.

We found the same video posted on their Instagram account named “Dimaydilara” on 25 August 2020. The caption of the video states, “From Bachata Stars Weekend classes.”

According to their website, Dima and Dilara are Bachata dancers who teach this dance form in Moscow. They won awards in the nominations “Teacher of the Year” and “For Contribution to the Bachata Movement in Russia” in 2018.

We found several other videos of Dima and Dilara performing and teaching Bachata dance. You can see more videos here.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ppLsABdD2zk&ab_channel=Bachata.DimaandDilara.

What is Bachata?

Bachata is a style of social dance from the Dominican Republic, which has now spread all over the world. It is connected with bachata music. It is form of a sensual dance.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video to be false. The video shows performers Dima and Dilara who are Russian Bachata dancers based in Moscow. This video does not show robots performing at Disneyland in Shanghai.