While Karnataka's capital Bengaluru witnessed deadly violence over an alleged communal Facebook post on August 11 which led to the death of three people, and several injured, another district in Karnataka - Chamarajanagar - seems to be gaining traction on social media as well.

An image with the photo of Jesus inside the sanctum sanctorum of a Ganapathy temple in Chamarajanagar is viral on the internet with the claim that the district SP, who is from the Christian faith pressured the priest to place the photo of Jesus inside the temple. The viral image also shows SP Divya Sara Thomas worshipping in front of the sanctum sanctorum.

advertisement

The caption to one such image posted on Twitter reads, "SP of Chamarajanar district Divya Sara Thomas has visited #AnjaneyaTemple in Kollegala. SP has reportedly put pressure on the priest to place the photo of #Jesus inside the sanctum sanctorum of Temple and asked for pooja to be offered."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The incident happened at Sri Veeranjaneya Temple in the Chamarajanagar district of Karnataka where guests are gifted Hindu deities. On realising the SP is from a different faith, the priest gifted her a photo of Jesus Christ along with photos of Hindu deities.

The post which has a communal spin went viral on social media (http://bitly.ws/9qiX ) with netizens demanding action against the Chamarajanagar SP.

Until the time of filing this story, one such post had received 6,000 retweets and likes.

The archived version of the viral post can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

AFWA reached out to Raghavan Lachu, the chief priest of the Sri Veeranjaneya Temple in the Kollegal area of Chamarajanar district where the alleged incident reportedly took place.

Rubbishing the claims on social media the priest said, "People from all communities visit this temple frequently for worship. On August 5 we had a special pujan as part of Ayodhya's Ram temple groundbreaking ceremony. Since the district SP was around in our Taluk for flood relief duty at that time, people invited her to the temple."

"It is our temple custom to offer guests the Hindu idols after pujan. Since the SP is a Christian, somebody brought the picture of Jesus as well. After completing the rituals we gifted her the photo of Jesus along with photos of Hindu deities. The temple decided to offer her an image of Jesus Christ. Claims on social media that she pressurised me is false. I am sorry if the image has hurt the religious sentiments of any Hindu," the priest added.

Divya Sara Thomas, an IPS officer of the 2013 Karnataka batch, took charge as the first woman Superintendent of Police in Chamarajanagar district in July this year.

advertisement

When contacted by AFWA, the SP said the social media posts are disheartening.

"On August 5, I was on rounds in Kollegal Taluk for flood-related arrangements and that's when the locals invited me to the temple. But the social media posts that came later are very unfortunate and disheartening. Till now I have never thought of myself as a minority or Christian and I have done my work with utmost sincerity and dedication. As a public servant, we are ready to take bouquets and brickbats with equal vigour. Will continue to work with the same level of enthusiasm," SP Divya Thomas told AFWA.

The Karnataka State Police department also released a clarification on the incident. The department confirmed that the social media posts are factually incorrect and the SP did not put pressure on the temple priest to place a photo of Jesus in the temple.

Hence the claim that Chamarajanagar district SP Divya Sara Thomas pressurised a temple priest to place the photo of Jesus inside the sanctum sanctorum of a temple is false. The SP was invited by the temple and the photo of Jesus was a gift offered by the temple to the SP along with the photo of other Hindu deities.