The devastating Beirut blast incident that took place on August 5, has left around three lakh people homeless, at least 135 dead and nearly 4,000 injured.

Amid the photos and videos of the carnage, a picture of rows of cars badly damaged along with smoke all around is being widely circulated on social media. It is being said that this damage took place during the Beirut explosion.

advertisement

The claim is viral mainly on the Facebook in English and Urdu languages.

The post has been shared with a caption, “After the devastating explosion, burnt imported cars on the port of Beirut.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The picture being shared on the social media is related to a 2015 explosion which occurred in China.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

While doing a reverse search of the image, we found it in a BBC report related to the twin explosions which had occurred in the Tianjin city of China in the year 2015. In this report, the image was credited to the Associated Press.

More than 100 people had lost their lives in these explosions which had occurred in a warehouse in the port area of Tianjin which was said to be caused by the illegal storage of 11,300 tonne of hazardous chemicals.

Tianjin port is one of China’s biggest automobile shipping ports. According to a Financial Times report, cars worth around 625 million dollars, belonging to various automobile manufacturers, were destroyed in this incident.

We found the same viral picture in several other news reports as well. Some such reports can be viewed here, here and here.

The recent explosion at Lebanon’s capital Beirut was of over 2,700 tonne of ammonium nitrate stored for around six years in a warehouse near the Beirut port.

But this particular picture which is being circulated on social media is not related to this recent blast. It is related to the explosions which had occurred in Tianjin, China in the year 2015.

ALSO READ | What a Beirut-equivalent catastrophe would look like in India