Following a dispute between two religious sects, Bhainsa has been under a strict curfew since March 8. On Saturday (March 13) evening, a battle between two people over a bike accident culminated in fresh violence between two groups.

Amid this, two photos of severely damaged properties have gone viral on social media with the claim that this is how the Muslims attacked the Hindus in Bhainsa and looted and burnt their properties. The first picture shows a man standing on a road and surrounded by burnt shops, buildings, and an overturned car. The second picture shows some policemen standing in the vandalised area.

advertisement

The pictures are being shared on Twitter with the caption "In a case of deliberate, largescale violence, a Muslim mob attacked members of the Hindu community and looted and burnt their property in Bhainsa town of Telangana. The Muslim mobs on a rampage also pelted stones at police who rushed to the spot. #SaveHindusOfBhainsa".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the viral post is not completely true. Though communal violence hit Bhainsa division in Telangana recently, these photos were taken in Delhi after communal clashes broke out in February 2020.

Some users have also posted viral photos with the same caption on Facebook. Archive of the post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

With the help of reverse image search, we found that both the pictures were taken last year in Delhi when rioters vandalised several shops and buildings following violent clashes in the national capital.

The first picture is available on the image stock website Getty Images. According to the caption, the photo shows the aftermath of clashes between people supporting and opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in New Delhi.

The photo was clicked by AFP photographer Sajjad Hussain on February 26, 2020. The picture was also used by several other news websites with the same information.

The second picture has also found its way in several media reports related to the Delhi riots. The photo was taken by a photojournalist of news agency PTI in a violence-hit area of North East Delhi. The infamous Delhi riots of 2020 took the lives of 53 people and injured several others.

Here, it has been established that the viral photos are more than one year old and nothing to do with Bhainsa violence.

What happened in Bhainsa?

As per a report in The Times of India, trouble started in Bhainsa on March 7 when the handle of a bike accidentally brushed a passer-by, who belonged to another community. After this, members of both the groups descended on the scene and attacked each other.

Police said some vegetable shops, vehicles and houses were torched during the violence. The violence left 12 people injured including two journalists and three police officers.

advertisement

Citing District's Superintendent of Police, The Hindu reported that 15 cases have been registered and 14 persons, including two municipal councillors - one from AIMIM and another Independent - were arrested and remanded in judicial custody.

Communal clashes in Bhainsa also took place last year in January and May in which more than 30 people were injured and several properties were damaged.