A video of a fishing trawler turning turtle in the choppy seawaters has gone viral on social media. The stomach-churning video shows some men floating in the turbulent sea and a few being rescued.

Many social media users have claimed that the video is of a sea storm near Uran Mora. Uran Mora is a fishing village in Navi Mumbai off the Arabian Sea coast. Social media users also claimed that police are busy in relief work and there has been no loss of lives so far.

advertisement

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is not from Uran Mora but from Kakdwip in West Bengal off the Bay of Bengal.

Facebook user Pinky Punjabi uploaded the video of fishermen fighting an impossible battle, trying to save their boat from going under the sea. Some of these fishermen are later saved by fellow fishermen on an adjoining fishing trawler.

Along with the video posted on July 13, Pinky Punjabi wrote, "Sea Storm today at 9 am at Uran Mora." The archived version of the post can be seen here.

This post has been shared across various social media platforms such as YouTube and Twitter with the same claims.

#anytimesnewschannel#

*Today 9 Am Uran Mora ka Samundar Tufaan

" "

" "

Any timesnews channel

Any times News Channel https://t.co/IwzSrC81Jz Samaj Sevak (@SamajSevak17) July 13, 2019

If one hears the video, there is a distinct Bengali conversation that can be heard among the fishermen on the trawler from where the video is being recorded.

AFWA did a reverse search of the video and found that it has been uploaded on Youtube on July 8, claiming that this incident is from Kakdwip in West Bengal.

In West Bengal, fishing in the coastal areas is banned between April 15 and June 15. It is after June 15 that fishing starts. Hundreds of trawlers go out into the Bay of Bengal for fishing. This particular incident took place on July 6 at around 7 pm when these trawlers were returning from Haribhanga Char which is in Bangladesh waters.

There were 61 fishermen on board the four trawlers that drowned in the sea that evening. While most of the fishermen were picked up by fellow fishermen in adjoining trawlers, 24 fishermen are still missing. News about this can be read here and the same viral video can be seen in a news clip here

AFWA also checked the Internet to see if there had been any such incident off the coast of Navi Mumbai. But we did not find any news of any fishing vessel turning turtle in the Arabian Sea off the Mumbai or Navi Mumbai coasts.

advertisement

In fact, fishing is banned in the Arabian Sea off the Maharashtra coast from June 1 when monsoon arrives and the sea becomes rough. News about this can be read here.

(With inputs from Prasenjit Saha)