Spread the truth:

A photo of ISIS is viral in which one is claimed as the missing JNU student Najeeb Ahmad.

The text along with the photo reads –

“पहचाना इसे ??

अरे अपना नजीब…JNU वाला नजीब…आज़ादी गैंग वाला नजीब !!

वामी कामी गिरोह का दुलारा नजीब …JNU से डाइरेक्ट प्लेसमेंट हुआ है ISIS में !!

सीरिया से राहुल जी और केजरी सर जी को सलाम भेजा है!!”

Translation –

“Did you recognize the guy ? This is our Najeeb, JNU’s Najeeb, Azadi gang’s Najeeb. Libral gang’s beloved Najeeb. He got direct placement in ISIS from JNU. He has sent salute to Rahul Ji and Kejrii sir ji from Syria”

The following post by a Facebook page named Modi Mania posted on 3rd March 2019 has been shared by 1035 people

It’s also viral on WhatsApp

The same was also viral just a year ago too. –

Najeeb Ahmad, a student pursuing MSc in Biotechnology in JNU, has been missing since October 2016.

While his mother had been crying and asking government to find his whereabouts, there had been lots of speculations and theories floating around on Social Media since then.

Following PM’s Chowkidar campaign, she asked the same question again.

‘If you are a chowkidar, tell me where is my son’: Najeeb’s mother asks PM #NarendraModi https://t.co/LpaPIdmr8Q — The Tribune (@thetribunechd) March 17, 2019

This was followed by the above viral posts as answers that Najeeb has not gone missing but has joined ISIS and the photo is the proof.

Truth

While Najeeb Ahmad went missing since October 2016, this photo was uploaded on Internet in March 2015 or before i.e. More than 1 year

The photo is claimed by The international Business Times as

“Shi’ite fighters stands near a wall painted with the black flag commonly used by Islamic State militants in the town of Tal Ksaiba – Thaier al-Sudani/Reuters”

Further, you can see the difference in the faces. The right one is the missing Najeeb Ahmand

More Fakes –

लेकिन अब चोंकाने वाली तस्वीर आयी है।वही नजीब अहमद अब ISIS का आंतकवादी बन चुका है।निश्चय ही मोदी और भारत सरकार ने भेजा होगा उसे??

डूब मरो हरामजादो। अब जरूरी है नजीब की माँ,केजरीवाल,राहुल गांधी और कन्हैया कुमार को गिरफ्तार करके उन पर देश के संसाधनों के दुरुपयोग,अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्तर pic.twitter.com/bZ2AHeFfe8 — राष्ट्रभक्तDewasi में चौकीदार (@Dewasi98418902) March 18, 2019

This was viral last year too

Related