An emotional video of a man and child holding a newborn baby and sobbing is circulating on social media. An Arabic song is also heard in the background. It is being said that the family is from Palestine and the baby’s mother was killed in an Israeli airstrike.

A Facebook user shared the video with the caption, “Mother of Palestine newborn killed by Israel Air Strike. Israel is a terrorist state. #indiastandswithpalestine”.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is from Brazil and has no connection with the ongoing clashes between Israel and Palestine. The mother of the newborn is also safe. The man and his elder son were sobbing as they got emotional after the baby’s birth.

The claim is viral on Facebook. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

Reverse searching keyframes of the viral video on Yandex search engine, we found that a Twitter user named “Using Beyonce’s Internet” had posted it on March 22, 2021, with the caption, “This boy crying like he’s the one who just gave birth. C’est quoi ça?”

Commenting on this, some people had asked her to delete the post, saying the newborn’s mother is dead. Replying to such comments, “Using Beyonce’s Internet” shared some screenshots of an Instagram handle “@joaoprudencioneto” in which the man crying in the viral video is seen here smiling with the newborn baby and a woman lying on a hospital bed.

Along with these screenshots, she wrote a caption in French, which translates to, “The mom is not dead! Thank you.”

Taking a clue from here, we searched for the Instagram handle “@joaoprudencioneto”, which was found belonging to Brazilian lawyer, musician and pastor Jo£o Prudªncio Neto.

We found that a longer version of the viral video was posted on Neto’s Instagram account on March 4, 2021. Here, the video has no Arabic music, which means it was added later to make it look like the people in the video are Palestinians.

While in the viral video, the man and the boy were only seen crying, in some parts of the longer Instagram video, both can be seen smiling as well.

The video has a caption in Portuguese, which translates to, “After having our first son David, I became infertile. It was impossible to be a father again with zero sperm production. My wife was healthy and also dreamed of having another child. Until the Lord Jesus healed me, giving me life so I could generate another one. Giovanna’s birth is not only a blessing for our family, but also for all those who dream one day of experiencing the miracle that only Jesus can do. We prayed every day for a miracle. I was a father again without any artificial procedure. Glory to God! All this emotion is due to the miracle performed; my wife is very well and happy!”

Neto had also shared some pictures with his wife and newborn girl on the same day, which can be seen below.

A Brazilian media company “Balsas Acontece” had used the viral video in one of its news reports. It can be seen at 1 hour 12 minutes in the following video.

As per “The Economic Times”, heavy exchange of gunfire between Palestine and Israel broke out on May 10 when Hamas launched a volley of rockets towards Israel in “solidarity” with Palestinians in “annexed” East Jerusalem.

Following this, Israel responded with deadly strikes on Palestinian enclaves, suspected to be housing Hamas military assets. According to a May 19 report by “CNBCTV18”, the violence has so far claimed 212 Palestinian lives, including 61 children.

We contacted Neto for his comments but did not get a response till the filing of this story. This story shall be updated when we receive a response from him. But it is clear that the viral video is from Brazil and has absolutely no connection with the ongoing clashes between Israel and Palestine.