Amid a global outpouring of grief, football legend Diego Maradona was laid to rest at a cemetery outside Argentina's Buenos Aires on November 26. While thousands flooded the streets of Buenos Aires as the footballer's coffin made its way for burial, Maradona's funeral was a private ceremony attended only by family and close friends.

Sixty-year-old Maradona had died of cardiac arrest on November 25.

advertisement

Now, an image purportedly showing Brazilian football legend Pele mourning at Maradona's grave is viral on social media with emotional captions. The caption of one such image reads, "Pele bids farewell to Maradona. That's painful". Another caption says, "Million dollar picture".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture is photoshopped. Pele did express grief on social media, but till the time of filing this article, there has been no report of him visiting Maradona's grave.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here, here and here.

AFWA probe

A reverse image search on the Russian search engine Yandex revealed that the viral picture is photoshopped.

We found the original photo on Getty Images. Over the years, several websites related to funeral services have used the same picture.

Here is a comparison of the viral and original images.

On November 25, after news broke of Maradona's death, Pele on his verified Twitter handle had paid tribute to the Argentine icon. This tweet has a picture of Maradona celebrating the World Cup victory in 1986.

Que not­cia triste. Eu perdi um grande amigo e o mundo perdeu uma lenda. Ainda há muito a ser dito, mas por agora, que Deus dª força para os familiares. Um dia, eu espero que possamos jogar bola juntos no céu. pic.twitter.com/6Li76HTikA— Pelé (@Pele) November 25, 2020

However, we could not find any credible report on Pele attending the last rites of Maradona. Here are some pictures of the funeral ceremony.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral image purportedly showing Pele at the grave of Maradona is photoshopped.