US President Joe Biden took oath as the new President of the US on 20th January 2021.

A lot of misleading claims have been circulating on social media since Biden has come to power in the US. Fact Crescendo has debunked several such claims in the past. Recently a screenshot of ‘Fox News’ is circulating on social media with a claim that it reported – ‘Joe Biden has been President for nine hours and 400,000 Americans are dead’.

The caption of the post mentions that “Joe Biden has been President for nine hours and 400,000 Americans are dead already. What is he doing?”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check

We started our investigation by observing the viral screenshot, where one can see that it is written – ‘The Daily Show with Trevor Noah’, on the top-right corner. Thus, we searched for this image on “The Daily Show” Twitter profile and found the same photo with the message – ‘Hannity tonight’. We looked for the profile description which mentioned– ‘Trevor Noah and The World’s Fakest News Team.’

Hannity tonight pic.twitter.com/uiYdRzuf0S — The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) January 20, 2021

Archive Link

The same ‘Fox News’ template has been used by ‘The Daily Show with Trevor Noah’ on many previous occasions since February 2018. They have the same accompanying message – ‘Hannity tonight’. You can see one such tweet below. Thus it is clear that the screenshot of ‘Fox News’ regarding 400,000 deaths in USA after Biden becoming the President is an edited one.

Hannity tonight pic.twitter.com/B0aYAMlPPJ — The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) February 2, 2018

Archive Link

We also searched for similar news report on the website of ‘Fox News’, but we were unable to find any such news reports. We found a news report which stated that ‘the U.S. exceeded 400,000 deaths due to the novel coronavirus on Tuesday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The saddening milestone comes just over a month after the nation surpassed 300,000 virus-related deaths in December, breaking 250,000 deaths less than a month prior.”

Archive Link

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above-mentioned post to be False. The viral image on social media is an edited ‘Fox News’ screenshot that claims 400,000 Americans died within 9 hours of Biden’s Presidentship.