A claim has surfaced on the internet according to which, Former Pakistan President and General Pervez Musharraf (retired) passed away.

The claim read: BREAKING: Former Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf passes away.

The post can be seen here. Another post can be seen here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim and found it to be false.

We started our investigation with a keyword search on Google and came across several news reports refuting the claims. These reports can be seen here, here and here.

At the time of filing this report, we found that Pervez Musharraf was hospitalised and his condition was critical as he has been getting treatment for amyloidosis, a disease that affects connective tissues and organs, inhibiting normal functioning.

In a tweet dated June 10, 2022, from his official Twitter handle, Musharraf’s family denied media reports that he was kept on a ventilator.

The Tweet read: “He is not on the ventilator. Has been hospitalized for the last 3 weeks due to a complication of his ailment (Amyloidosis). Going through a difficult stage where recovery is not possible and organs are malfunctioning. Pray for ease in his daily living.”

Message from Family: He is not on the ventilator. Has been hospitalized for the last 3 weeks due to a complication of his ailment (Amyloidosis). Going through a difficult stage where recovery is not possible and organs are malfunctioning. Pray for ease in his daily living. pic.twitter.com/xuFIdhFOnc — Pervez Musharraf (@P_Musharraf) June 10, 2022

In conclusion, the above information establishes that while former Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf is in a critical condition, however, claims of his demise are not true.

The report was published on June 10, 2022, at 11:00 pm IST. The article will be updated in case of further development.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news