Spread the truth:

A set of photos of a burnt idol of Godess Kali Maa is viral claimed as it’s done by an outsider. Some claim it’s done by an “unkown” or “miscreants” others claim it’s done by “Jihadis”.

Twitter

Arjun Singh, Vice President,@BJP4Bengal, | Member Of Parliament, Barrackpore Lok Sabha tweeted –



“The jihadi nature of Didi’s politics is now hell bent on destroying Hindu religion and culture. See how one religious group has attacked and destroyed a temple and burned the idol of Maa Kali in Murshidabad area of West Bengal. Shameful.“

The jihadi nature of Didi's politics is now hell bent on destroying Hindu religion and culture.

See how one religious group has attacked and destroyed a temple and burned the idol of Maa Kali in Murshidabad area of West Bengal. Shameful. pic.twitter.com/lTnyiV9ctV — Arjun Singh (@ArjunsinghWB) September 1, 2020

A tweet by “Facts” has been retweeted around 3.6K times

Some 'unknown' person burnt the idol Kali Maa in Murshidabad.

Before After pic.twitter.com/oaJyaizTj6 — Facts (@BefittingFacts) September 1, 2020

archive

Desi Mojito quoted above tweet asking actor Jaaved Jaaferi which led to approx 2K retweets of his tweet

archive

The miscreants set fire to an Kali idol at an Kali temple in Alampur vill of Naoda PS in Murshidabad late last night.Earlier,gold ornaments of idol were stolen from d same temple.

Alampur is a Mslm majority area. At different times Hnds face obstacles in practicing their religion pic.twitter.com/UbgMtPBkO0 — Raju Das 🇧🇩 (@RajuDas77136393) September 1, 2020

WestBengal Police is after my life as I am consistently raising the Voice for Deprived&Tortured Hindus.

Another incident- this time Mooslem majority District MURSHIDABAD.

Idol of Maa Kali Burnt at Alampur, Ps Naoda.

Hapless disciples was compelled to get the Burnt Murti Visarjan pic.twitter.com/0DE5izqGFM — Devdutta Maji (@MajiDevDutta) September 2, 2020

Facebook

archive

WhatsApp

Websites

Truth

The idol of Kali Ma did burn but it was accidental, no one did it intentionally.

We first started with reverse search image but didn’t get any result which led us to believe that this incident is recent.

The second thing we noted was West Bengalo BJP Vice President, Arjun Singh mentioning the location as “Murshidabad” which gave us a clue.

So we looked for Murshidabad Police on twitter and found a tweet clearing the issue. They replied to Arjun Singh.

As stated by mandir committee it was a fire accident. Temple authorities are taking necessary action. Local police and administration coordinating.

Do not share to anyone without verifying personally.

You may contact mandir committee for further details. pic.twitter.com/YTZJFwjWiE — Murshidabad Police (@MurshidabadPol1) September 1, 2020

archive

But then again, this twitter handle claiming to be Murshidabad Police was not verified and have a small number of followers so we called up them up and talked directly to the Superintendent of Police IPS Sabari Rajkumar.

He clearly said it was an accident and not intentional harm done by anyone. He told us that the reason was a lamp burning at the feet of the idol. He also cleared that the handle was theirs and not fake, they are working on it to get verified.

They also tweeted a letter by Temple Committee on Temple’s Letterhead

“Alampur Kali Maa Nimtala Kalimandir”

SP, Murshidabad sent us Hindi translation of the letter above

“एक विशेष आवेदन,

मेरा आप सबसे एक सविनय निवेदन है कि मैं काली माता निमतला मंदिर का संपादक हूं और मेरा नाम है सुखदेव बाजपाई, पिता अर्जित बाजपाई, ग्राम आलिंपुर, पो सरतानगर, थाना नऊदा, जिला मुर्शिदाबाद।

31.8.2020 तारीख को रात में हमारे मंदिर में काली मां कि मूर्ति में आग लग गई। मंदिर में मैं कार्यरत्त हूं, और मैं यह बताना चाहता हूं कि हमारे इलाके में हिन्दू और मुस्लिम के बीच के संबंध काफी मधुर है। यह केवल एक दुर्घटना मात्र है। इस इलाके के हिन्दू मुस्लिम ऐसा काम नहीं कर सकते। गौरतलब है कि मंदिर का ताला तोड़ा नहीं गया, और किसी भी प्रकार की चोरी नहीं हुई, यह सिर्फ एक दुर्घटना मात्र है। कुछ लोग इसको साम्प्रदायिक रूप देकर उसका दुष्प्रचार करने की चेष्टा कर रहे हैं। मेरा सभी से यह अनुरोध है कि किसी भी प्रकार की अफवाहों पर यकीन ना करे, एवम् किसी प्रकार की अफवाह ना फैलाए।

सुखदेव बाजपाई,

संपादक, काली मंदिर”

On asking SP cleared Sampadak in Bengali is a word for Secretary

We also talked to the Secretary Mr. Sukhdev Bajpayee above who told us that there was no damage, no theft, Lock was intact too. He told us further that they keep a burning lamp under the idol every-night which might be the reason for this unfortunate incident.

He emphasized on the point that all the religions in the community lives in total harmony and their is no communal angle involved, especially when even their lock was intact.

West Bengal Police have also cleared the issue

Related