October 31 marks the death anniversary of Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.

Besides the normal messages paying respect to the former Prime Minister, a Facebook post with a black and white picture is going viral on Facebook.

The post along with the image claims that Rahul and Rajiv Gandhi are praying and reading out kalma( Islamic prayers) in front of Indira Gandhi’s dead body.

advertisement

Two former Prime Ministers, Rajiv Gandhi, and Narasimha Rao are seen in the photo. There are other congress leaders along with Rahul Gandhi can also be spotted in the picture. The images of Rahul and Rajiv Gandhi have been circled.

The caption in the post written in Hindi says Infront of Indira Gandhi’s dead body, Rahul and Rajiv Gandhi are reading kalma, but even then the people of our country think they are Brahmins.

The archived version is saved here.

India Today Anti Fake News War room ( AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim. This image is not of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s funeral, but the funeral of Afghan leader and freedom fighter Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan better known as Frontier Gandhi’ or Bacha Khan.

This viral post had appeared earlier as well on social media. Fact checker Boom live has debunked this claim.

With the help of reverse image search, the viral image can be found in a tweet by a politician of North Waziristan, Mohsin Dawar and in the archived photos of skyscrapercity.com. In both the places it was mentioned that this is the picture of Bacha Khan’s funeral where the Gandhi gamily along with other Congress leaders were present.

Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, died Peshwar on January 20, 1988. Rajiv Gandhi along with his family and other leaders attended the funeral in Pakistan. It was reported in several international newspapers like LA Times and United Press International.

Indira Gandhi died on October 31, 1984 and her last rites were performed according to Hindu rituals. Her funeral can be seen in here in this video.

So the viral post claiming that the Gandhi family followed Islamic rituals in front of India Gandhi’s dead body is misleading. The viral picture showing Rajiv Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi is from Frontier Gandhi’s last rites and not of India Gandhi.

Also read: Fact Check: Don’t get dazzled by these mesmerising fireworks in Mumbai’

Also read: Fact Check: Viral image of PM Narendra Modi wearing keffiyeh is photoshopped