On September 2nd 2019, a Facebook user named “Mohammad Sharif” posted a video on Facebook. The title of the video was “another case of mob violence in Delhi. A pregnant woman, mute and deaf, was beaten up by a mob in North East Delhi’s Harsh Vihar area on suspicion of being a child kidnapper. Rumors of child abduction are spreading like wildfire and poor deprived people are becoming victims.

This picture is being shared on social media platforms and is claimed that the woman shown in this video is a child kidnapper. The mute and deaf woman was beaten up under the suspicion of being a child kidnapper. It has also been said that this incident is from North East Delhi’s Harsh Vihar area.

Facebook Post Archive Video

In the beginning of the investigation, we used the keywords associated with this incident “child kidnapper Delhi Harsh Vihar” to explore more about this incident. As a result, we found an article published by The Indian Express on 2nd September 2019. In this article it was mentioned that ‘a 25 year old pregnant woman was allegedly beaten up by a mob under the suspicion of being a child kidnapper in North East Delhi’s Harsh Vihar area on 27th August 2019.’ The Police said that the victim Priyanka, who has hearing and speech impaired, was beaten by a group of around 10 people.

Archive Link

After this, we contacted the head constable of Delhi’s Harsh Vihar police station. He confirmed that “the victim is hearing and speech impaired and she was beaten up by a group of around 10 people. This incident happened on 27th August.

Apart from this, we contacted North East Delhi’s DCP Atul Kumar Thakur. He told us that “this incident took place on 27th August 2019 and the victim is a resident of Faridabad. She had lost her way in Harsh Vihar at that time, due to which people suspected her of being a child kidnapper and started beating her.”

We have reunited her with her brother and she is safe now. After this, when this video was made viral on social media, we registered an FIR. Further, 3 accused have been arrested under sections 343, 341 and 34 of IPC. This is how we found that the woman was not a criminal and the charges against her were fake.

Conclusion: After investigating the facts, we found the above post absolutely wrong. The woman shown in the video is not a child kidnapper. She only lost her way.

Other facts check about child kidnapping