The Jai Shri Ram controversy that rocked Bengal during elections refuses to die down on social media.

A video of police brutality has gone viral on social media where a police officer is seen thrashing a chained man in front of other policemen and the man can be heard shouting Jai Bajrang Bali.

Facebook user Rajesh Rawat posted the video with the claim that the man kept on saying Jai Shri Ram even after heavy thrashing from Bengal police.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim. The viral video is old and was in circulation since 2014 on social media. The incident has nothing to do with West Bengal.

Facebook user Rajesh Rawat’s post was shared by more than 52,000 people at the time of writing this article. More than 4,000 users commented on it. While most users believed the claim, others doubted if the incident was from Bengal.

In the 30-second video, a man in red shirt tied up in chain is being thrashed by a police officer in presence of other policemen. The officer is talking in Hindi and using expletives while thrashing the man with a stick. The man can be heard saying Jai Bajrang Bali repeatedly.

Splitting up the video in key-frames through InVid and using reverse image search, we found that the video was in circulation on YouTube for the last five years.

India Zone published the video on YouTube on September 30, 2014. YouTuber Virender Roj uploaded it in 2015.

In 2016, a YouTube channel called Akhil Bhartiya Chutiyapa Department uploaded the same video with the caption, Police in UP beats hell out of people and no one has daring to stop him.

In 2017, Fact Check website Alt News debunked a separate claim made on the same viral video.

The claim was originally made by a Bengal BJP leader on Facebook and circulated in other social media platforms. It claimed that a Hindu man was beaten up on Hanuman Jayanti (April 11, 2017) by two Muslim IPS officers in Birbhum.

Tarun Sengupta, BJP’s IT cell head in Asansol, posted the fake claim along with the viral video on his Facebook page on April 17, 2017. The post is not available on Facebook now.

The Bengal CID, who handled this case, later tweeted and confirmed that Sengupta had been arrested for spreading fake news and creating communal disharmony. CID attached the screen shot of Sengupta’s FB post, which shows an image of the viral video.

advertisement Tarun Sengupta, Secretary BJP IT Cell, Asansol, WB, arrested today for spreading fake news and creating communal disharmony. pic.twitter.com/GRWSPPnMq5— CID West Bengal (@CIDWestBengal) July 12, 2017

Bengali news website Zee 24 Ghonta published the same news in July, 2017.

Fact Checker Fact crescendo recently did a report on the same video.

We could not independently confirm the exact location and date of the incident. But it is confirmed that the video is over five years old and the incident was not from West Bengal.