Dealing a severe blow to the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab, the president of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), Simranjit Singh Mann, emerged victorious in the Sangrur Lok Sabha constituency bypoll.

Sangrur, AAP’s only seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, went to polls as the sitting MP, Bhagwant Mann, resigned and became the Chief Minister following the Assembly elections.

advertisement

Amidst the bypoll results, a video of several people protesting against Bhagwant Mann during a press conference has gone viral.

“Seems like they’ve earned a good reputation in 3 months, such an insult,” a user who shared the video wrote.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim to be misleading. This video was shot earlier in January 2022 when Bhagwant Mann faced backlash from journalists in Jalandhar. It was only in March 2022 that AAP came to power in Punjab.

AFWA Probe

A reverse search of the screenshots from the viral clip led us to the same video on Punjab Congress’ official Twitter handle. They had tweeted it on January 24, 2022 with the caption, “In Jalandhar, journalists raised slogans against Aam Aadmi Party at Bhagwant Mann's press conference. Journalists are protesting against Aam Aadmi Party all over Punjab.”

In Jalandhar, journalists raised slogans against Aam Aadmi Party at Bhagwant Mann's press conference.



Journalists are protesting against Aam Aadmi Party all over Punjab. https://t.co/RSyZuNUXmT" >pic.twitter.com/RSyZuNUXmT a> — Punjab Congress (@INCPunjab) https://twitter.com/ INCPunjab/status/ 1485620193795899396?ref_src= twsrc%5Etfw">January 24, 2022

This confirmed the video is not recent. When checked further, we found a report by the Hindi news website ‘Daily Samvad’ about the incident. According to this report, AAP Punjab co-in-charge Raghav Chaddha visited Jalandhar Press Club on January 7, 2022.

He was there to induct Congress leader Dinesh Dhall and others into the party ahead of the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections. But he had to face a protest from other AAP leaders of the district, who had aspired for the Assembly tickets but were rejected. The protest got violent, and Press Club property got damaged.

Later on January 24, when Mann held a press meet at a Jalandhar hotel, some journalists protested over the incident at the Press Club earlier in the month. The report also stated that Mann had to apologize to the journalists to calm things down.

India Today’s correspondent from Jalandhar, Paramjit Singh Rangpuri, shared a Facebook video of the said press conference. The upload from Punjabi news channel ‘Voice of Punjab' showed Mann apologising for the ruckus at the Press Club.

advertisement

Thus, we conclude that the people in this viral video were not protesting against the AAP government in Punjab. This was shot two months before they were elected to power.

(Written by Yash Mittal)