Recently once again on various WhatsApp groups, a picture & text is being shared a lot. It shows a man being caught by police and claims that Cadbury products have been contaminated by a worker of the company, with his HIV (AIDS) infected blood.

WhatsApp Message Text:

“This is the guy who added his infected blood to Cadbury products. For the next few weeks do not eat any products from Cadbury, as a worker from the company has added his blood contaminated with HIV (AIDS). It was shown yesterday on BBC News. Please forward this message to people who you care.”

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA

These types of hoax messages are being shared by mischievous people to create confusion in the minds of readers. Online this kind of message has been shared in many countries.

This kind of hoax and fake claims that foodstuffs from pineapples to canned goods to soft drinks have somehow become contaminated with HIV/AID has been prevalent for many years.

This claim relating to confectionery company, Cadbury, started appearing in 2018. It’s actually a reworked hoax, with Pepsi cold drinks being targeted previously.

This is the guy who added infected

Blood to Ćadbury products for the next few week do no eat any products from Çadbury as a Warker company's has Added his blood to intifengass Contaminated with (HIV) (AIDS. ) ○it's was show Yesterday on "BBC )

News plese eat would lose ° pic.twitter.com/VG5ayC7d2N — MuGhees moaZzam ☆ (@MugheesMoazzam) March 25, 2018

This hoax message has been debunked by various sites including fact-checking sites such as Snopes, AfricaCheck, Boom Live, The Quint have already written extensively on this hoax message. Few of these articles are given below for our readers to better understand this story:

Snopes

AfricaCheck

Boom Live

The Quint

In India, few more pictures were clubbed with this hoax picture and shared across WhatsApp:

*** Warning: Few of the pictures displayed below might be offensive to our readers, please be aware***

OUR FACT CHECK

Fact Crescendo team did a fact check on this issue. We did Google Reverse Image search & Google search of the message text and found many references online.

We found the following:

First & foremost, HIV does not survive long outside the human body (such as on surfaces), and it cannot reproduce outside a human host. It is not spread by: Mosquitoes, ticks, or other insects. Saliva, tears, or sweat that is not mixed with the blood of an HIV-positive person. Hugging, shaking hands, sharing toilets, sharing dishes, or closed-mouth or “social” kissing with someone who is HIV-positive. Other sexual activities that don’t involve the exchange of body fluids (for example, touching).



Our readers can read more about this topic here. So, spreading of HIV through contamination of foodstuff is NOT possible as per World Health Organisation (WHO).

This fake message is being shared around on WhatsApp groups and online from last few years in many countries.

This claim relating to confectionery company, Cadbury, started appearing in 2018. It’s actually a reworked hoax, with Pepsi cold drinks being targeted previously.

Hey there. The hoax circulating about a Cadbury employee contaminating chocolate with HIV infected blood is exactly that – a false hoax. Please do not spread the hoax by sharing it further. — Cadbury Dairy Milk (@Cadbury_SA) March 8, 2018