Delhi Police has clarified that there was an incident of massive fire at a wedding tent and not a blast at any CNG petrol pump in Rohini, Delhi.

A video showing a huge fire is circulating on social media with the claim that a huge fire broke out at a CNG petrol pump in Rohini, Delhi. Users claim that the fire broke out after a huge blast at a CNG petrol station in Rohini. We found that the video is being shared out of context.

TV9 Bharatvarsh also shared the same video with the claim that it shows a CNG petrol station blast on 28 March 2022.

The caption of the post reads, “A huge fire broke out at a CNG petrol pump in Sector 11 Rohini of Delhi”

(Hindi: दिल्ली के सेक्टर 11 रोहिणी मे सीएनजी पैट्रोल पंप जबर्दस्त आग लगी)

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google that led us to a tweet by Delhi Police that stated that the details related to this blast on social media is factually incorrect. The blast originally took place on 24 March a pandal and not a CNG petrol pump in Rohini. There were no causalities reported and Delhi Police acted promptly to deal with the situation.

The tweet reads, “A video being spread on social media, of fire at a CNG pump in Rohini, is factually incorrect. Incident of fire took place on 24th Mar at a pandal wherein no casualties were reported. #DelhiPolice acted promptly to help contain the situation.”

A video being spread on social media, of fire at a CNG pump in Rohini, is factually incorrect. Incident of fire took place on 24th Mar at a pandal wherein no casualties were reported.#DelhiPolice acted promptly to help contain the situation. @dcprohinidelhi #DelhiPoliceUpdates pic.twitter.com/0MKJaNXFPE — Delhi Police (@DelhiPolice) March 28, 2022

Archive Link

Upon searching for relevant news reports, we found that NDTV, Amar Ujala and Punjab Kesari TV has reported the same news on 24 March 2022. A massive fire broke out in a wedding pandal (tent) located in Rohini Sector-11 area. A dozen fire brigades reached the spot and started extinguishing the fire. A youth suffered minor burns in the fire. Two cars and a bike were also burnt there. This incident took place near a CNG petrol station but the wedding pandal originally caught fire.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the viral video on social media to be shared out of context. The video does not show a blast at a CNG petrol pump that broke out a massive fire at Rohini, Delhi. A wedding tent caught fire at Rohini, Delhi.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)