Joseph R. Biden Jr. or Joe Biden as he is famously called is expected to be sworn in as the 46th President of the United States of America on January 20, 2021, amid talks of a scaled-down event owing to the coronavirus pandemic.

Amid this, multiple social media handles from India are now claiming that former Indian Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh will be the chief guest at Biden's swearing-in

ceremony.

advertisement

One such claim in Hindi translates to, "Breaking, Dr Manmohan Singh of India will be the chief guest for the swearing-in of the new American President Biden."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false. Dr Singh's office confirmed to AFWA that until the night of November 9, the former PM's office has not received an invitation to the oath-taking ceremony of Biden.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

President-elect Biden has advocated a strong relationship with India throughout his career, both as a senator as well as vice president.

In 2008, when Biden was chairman, Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he worked towards the US Senate's approval of US-India Civil Nuclear Agreement.

However, we could not find any report on the US inviting any of the Indian leaders including Dr Singh to the swearing-in of President-elect Biden. Also, swearing-in ceremonies usually have only guests and not a chief guest. We could also not find reports on previous swearing-in ceremonies in the US which had a chief guest.

When AFWA contacted Dr Singh's office, the office confirmed to us that the former Prime Minister has not received any such invites and the viral claim is false.

"Dr Singh has not received any such invite and the viral claim is false. In fact, how can Biden invite guests to the oath-taking ceremony when the results are not officially declared and legal proceedings are still going on," the office of Dr Singh told AFWA.

According to The New York Times report published on November 9, it is the Joint Congressional Committee that plans the swearing-in ceremony of both the President-elect and Vice President-elect of the US.

The current committee began its preparation for the 2021 swearing-in in June and is planning to hold the ceremony on January 20, says the report.

On who is expected to attend the ceremony, the report only mentions the American officials and other dignitaries who are traditionally seated on the platform.

advertisement

There is no mention of the international guests who are expected for the swearing-in of the President-elect.

Thus, it is clear that until the time of filing this story, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh did not receive an invitation for the swearing-in of President-elect Joe Biden.