Amid Russia’s ongoing invasion of Ukraine, videos and images falsely claiming to be from the conflict continue to be shared. Among them is a captivating video of several military aircrafts flying in a formation over a residential area. The video was shared with the claim that these were Russian planes flying over Ukraine.

Several Twitter users shared this 30-second video clip with claims like, “The fighter jets have arrived.”

advertisement

Some verified handles like BJP’s Lok Sabha MP, PC Mohan, has also tweeted the same viral video and wrote, “‘The present situation in #Ukraine is highly uncertain. Stay where you are, avoid travel to Kyiv.’ India issues advisory to stranded citizens in Ukraine. The @MEAIndia control room is also being expanded and made operational on a 24x7 basis. #RussiaUkraineConflict #WWIII.”

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claim along with the video misleading. This video has no connection with the ongoing Russia-Ukraine crisis.

The viral posts are archived here, here, and here.

AFWA probe

We ran a reverse image search with the help InVID tool and found the video on multiple YouTube channels, having been shared there as early as May 2020.

We found a longer version of the viral video uploaded by a YouTuber, “GoOn”, on May 4, 2020. The title of the YouTube video in Russian, says, “ Parade rehearsal 05/04/2020. Air part. Flight of aircraft over Tushino.” This YouTube video was 4.48 minutes long.

Comparing the screengrab of the viral video with the YouTube video, we could confirm that the viral video was an edited, shorter version of the YouTube video.

"At the same time, when we compared the background sounds in the two videos, we found that the siren blaring in the viral video is missing in the original YouTube video."

Taking a clue from the YouTube title that this could be a rehearsal of an air parade near Tushino airfield, located northwest of Moscow, we performed more searches.

With the help of the Russian search engine Yandex, we searched for news reports regarding this air parade that was supposedly held on May 4, 2020, near Moscow.

These searches yielded multiple news reports published on Russian news portals on May 4, 2020, about this air rehearsal.

Per these news reports, rehearsal of the aviation parade for Victory Day took place in Moscow on May 4, 2020. In Russia, every year on May 9, 2020, Victory Day is celebrated to commemorate the surrender of Nazi Germany in 1945.

advertisement

In 2020, the parade on Red Square on May 9, 2020, did not take place due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But during the rehearsals on May 4, more than 70 combat aircraft and helicopters, including fifth-generation Su-57 fighters, MiG-31K, reportedly flew over the Russian capital.

Although Russia launched a full-scale offensive against Ukraine, this particular viral video does not show the ongoing crisis. This is a two-year-old video of the rehearsal of a Russian air parade in Moscow.