Protests over the Agnipath recruitment scheme escalated in Bihar on June 17, when a mob attacked Deputy Chief Minister Renu Devi’s house, damaged railway properties, and disrupted normal life in many districts.

Against this backdrop, a video is being widely shared on social media with the people standing under a white two-story house and smashing things, claiming that angry mobs vandalising Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Renu Devi’s house.

The video is shared on Facebook with a caption in the Bengali: “এটা কিন্তু বিহারের উপ মুখ্যমন্ত্রীর বাড়ি শ্রীলঙ্কা পার্ট ২” (English translation: This is Bihar’s Deputy Chief Minister’s house. Sri Lanka part 2)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

Doing a keyword search, we found a news report published by Hindustan Times that Bihar Deputy Chief Minister’s house was vandalised by Agnipath protesters. It also embedded a video tweeted by ANI. Although in this video, the house is not clearly visible, one can see a blue structured building being vandalised and not white.

#WATCH | Bihar: The residence of Deputy CM Renu Devi, in Bettiah, attacked by agitators during their protest against #AgnipathScheme Her son tells ANI, “Our residence in Bettiah was attacked. We suffered a lot of damage. She (Renu Devi) is in Patna.” pic.twitter.com/Ow5vhQI5NQ — ANI (@ANI) June 17, 2022

Searching further, we found a clearer version of vandalism at Renu Devi’s home in Bihar, uploaded by Times Now on June 17, 2022. This video also shows a different house being attacked.

We then extracted keyframes from the viral video using the InVid Tool and performed a Reverse Image Search. This search directed us to a tweet upload on June 17, that carried the same viral video. The text reads: “Protesting students reached BJP office in Bagaha. BJP office vandalised, papers blown in the wind.”

We also found the same video uploaded by Alok Kumar, Editor of The Times of India’s Hindi edition. It also stated: “The BJP on the receiving end of #Agnipath protesters as its three MLAs and house of the Deputy CM in #Bihar were attacked in the last 24 hours. Protesters are now attacking its offices. This video is of the Bagha BJP office.”

The BJP on the receiving end of #Agnipath protestors as its Three MLAs and house of the deputy CM in #Bihar were attacked in the last 24 hours. Protestors are now attacking its offices. This video is of Bagha BJP office#AgnipathRecruitmentScheme #AgnipathScheme pic.twitter.com/0P7XMEMXLV — Alok Kumar (@dmalok) June 17, 2022

Many newspapers and media channels have also reported about BJP’s Bihar office being vandalised over Agnipath protests.

Thus, it is confirmed that the video on BJP’s Bihar office incident is being falsely shared as Bihar Deputy Cheif Minister’s house. Therefore, the viral claim is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news