Amid rising prices of petrol and diesel, a video of a group of people vandalising a petrol pump has gone viral on social media with the claim that this is how protests against oil price hike have broken out.

Several Facebook users have posted the two-minute-eight-second-long clip where some men are seen ransacking a petrol pump. The Hindi caption along with the post translates to, “Look at the public outrage. People are angry over rising petrol and diesel prices, and are vandalising a petrol pump. Modi government has failed.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. The viral video is two years old and has no link to the current hike in oil prices. The incident took place in Puri, Odisha, in 2018, where people vandalised a local petrol pump after allegations of petrol pilferage.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here. Many Facebook users have shared the video with the false claim.

AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we found that the same video went viral in 2018 with the claim that a petrol pump in Puri was vandalised after a hike in petrol price.

Fact-check website “BOOM” had then debunked the false claim after confirmation from police. According to this report, the vandalism took place not because of a hike in petrol price, but due to allegations of petrol pilferage against this particular outlet.

The same incident was reported by “Odisha TV” and “Odisha Bytes” on September 29, 2018.

According to these reports, tension sparked off near Medical Chhak, Puri, on the evening of September 28, 2018, when a customer complained about less dispensation of petrol by the pump staff. This was followed by an altercation and then an attack on the petrol pump by locals. Police had to resort to lathicharge to control the crowd.

Conclusion

It is true that protests, mainly by political parties, have been organised in some parts against the hike in oil prices. But the viral video of a mob vandalising a petrol pump is two years old and has no relation to any hike in petrol and diesel prices.