As India mourned the death of Lata Mangeshkar, tributes for the legendary singer poured in from all quarters on social media. Amid this, several netizens shared an emotional story involving Mangeshkar and another legendary singer, Kishore Kumar.

The viral story claims that Lata Mangeshkar sang Kishore Kumar’s popular number ‘Yeh Jeevan Hai’ and gifted it to him on a special tape on her birthday.

advertisement

Multiple Facebook users have posted this story with the song of Lata Mangeshkar.

The viral story read “Once Kishore Kumar asked Lata Mangeshkar, which of his song she liked the best. Lata smiled and asked him,’Dada, bol doon ya gaa kar sunao’... To which Kishore Da said, ‘Gaa kar hi sunaiye’. Lata laughed and said OK, but not today.”

The story further read, “Few months later it was Lataji's birthday and Kishore Kumar received a gift box from Lataji. Kishore Da used to always wish Lataji on her birthday with gifts. It had a note on it from Lataji, it said, ‘Dada, aapne itni baar mere janamdin par tohfe bheje hain, ese return gift samaj lena, aur zaroor bataana aap ko agar aacha laga’. He opened the box and there was a tape inside.”

The story also claimed, “It was the song Lataji loved most from all of Kishore Da's song... sung by Lata herself. She had contacted HMV recording studio and gone there recorded it only for Kishore Kumar. It seems Kishore Da listened to this song many times when he sat alone in his room. Nobody had heard this Kishore song sung by Lata exclusively for Kishore Kumar. Just listen to it, released by his wife Leena for the first time ever. Never heard before, enjoy.”

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the rendition of Kumar’s “Yeh Jeevan Hai” by Mangeshkar was not a private recording, especially for Kumar. It was part of Mangeshkar’s album “Shraddhanjali: My Tribute To The Immortals” where she paid a tribute to her colleagues from the singing world. Kumar’s “Yeh Jeevan Hai” from the film “Piya Ka Ghar” was one among them.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of keywords search we found that this internet story has gone viral previously as well.

We have found an article written by film critic Subhash K Jha and published last February last year on the portal IWMBUZZ.com. As per the report, the viral story is a hoax. The portal quoted Lata Mangeshkar, who denied the viral claim to the author.

advertisement

“I don’t recall any such incident. Kishore Da and I were very close to one another. He would make me laugh so much during our recordings for me. I cannot single out any one of his songs as my favourite. There were so many: Koi Lauta De Mere Beete Huey Din (from the film ‘Do Dooni Chaar’), Woh Sham Kuch Ajeeb Tthi (‘Khamoshi’), and Mera Jeevan Kora Kagaz (‘Kora Kagaz’). Kishoreda was filled with masti but when he sang, he projected so much emotion in his voice,” Mangeshkar had said at the time.



Since the story went viral again after the passing of Lata Mangeshkar on Sunday, AFWA contacted the founder editor of the website IWMBUZZ.com, Siddhartha Laik to confirm the year-old story. “We stand by our story” , said Laik.

To further cross check the viral story involving Lata Mangeshkar and Kishore Kumar, we contacted Mahesh Rathore, the private secretary to Lata Mangeshkar. “I have been with Lataji for the last 26 years. I have never heard this story from her or anybody else. This is probably the first time I am hearing this”, Rathore told AFWA over the phone.

advertisement

AFWA contacted writer, poet Yatindra Mishra, the author of the award-winning book, "Lata- Sur Gatha" — a biography in Hindi on Mangeshkar published in 2016. “ I have never heard about any such incident from Lataji ever,” Mishra told us.

The song “Yeh Jeevan Hai” was composed by Laxmikant-Pyarelal for the film “Piya Ka Ghar.” Mangeshkar’s cover of the song can be found on a number of music-streaming platforms like Gaana and JioSaavn.

Thus, we conclude that the viral story involving Lata Mangeshkar and Kishore Kumar and the song “Yeh Jeevan Hai” is a baseless rumour.

READ: Fact Check: Youth from Bihar didn't hack into Google, nor was he offered Rs 3.66 cr job

ALSO READ: Fact Check: No, this photo is not from 'inaugural' Air India flight after Tata takeover