The video is not PM Modi’s recent rally. It shows PM Modi’s roadshow in Varanasi while filing his nominations papers for Lok Sabha in 2019

In the backdrop of the Uttar Pradesh Election results being declared today, (10 March) a video showing PM Modi’s massive rally with thousands of supporters chanting Modi’s name is circulating on social media. Users are claiming that this road show was conducted after poll trends started coming up.

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on YouTube using the words “PM Modi road rally”. The results led us to the same video published by CRUX on 25 April 2019 with the caption “PM Modi kicks off Mega Rally in Varanasi | Day before Nomination.”

According to the description of the video, it shows PM Modi holding a mega roadshow in Varanasi a day before he filed the nomination paper for his Lok Sabha seat. He started the roadshow from the campus of the Benaras Hindu University by paying respect to the statue of Madan Mohan Malviya.

The description of the video reads, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is holding a mega roadshow in Varanasi, a day before he files the nomination papers from the Lok Sabha seat. Modi started the show of strength from the campus of the Benaras Hindu University by paying respects in front of a statue of Madan Mohan Malviya at a specially constructed stage in front of the main gate of the varsity. The rally was originally to start at 3 pm, but was delayed by over two hours.”

We also found the same video posted by a Twitter user on 25 April 2019 stating that it shows the Kashi Bole Namo Namo rally in Varanasi.

THIS IS THE TAKEAWAY VIDEO OF #KashiBoleNaMoNaMo roadshow today. As if the entire Varanasi city had come out on the city to welcome their favorite son. Just sheer passion. A historic moment, in electioneering, anywhere in the democratic world. pic.twitter.com/kMcJoZfmGM — New India Junction (@nijunction) April 25, 2019

This makes it clear that the viral video is not a recent one but shows PM Modi’s rally during the Lok Sabha Elections.

Next, we searched for a recent PM Modi’s rally in Varanasi and we found one conducted on March 4, 2022. The video was streamed live from Narendra Modi’s YouTube channel with the caption, “PM Modi’s road show in Varanasi.”

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video on social media to be shared out of context. The video shows PM Modi’s rally in Varanasi in 2019.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)