An image showing some school students sitting in the mud is being widely shared on social media, claiming that this is the situation of government schools in India.

The post is shared on Facebook with a caption in Hindi language: “अब #बताओ अपने #दिल में #इंसानियत रखने वालों..!! देश में 3,200 करोड़ की #मूर्ति, सेंट्रल विस्टा या मन्दिरों में अथाह #दान, प्रचारों के #पोस्टर जरुरी है/था…. या शिक्षा के लिए #विद्यालय.. जर्जर विद्यालय ढह नहीं जाए, इसलिये बच्चे भवन के बाहर कीचड़ जैसी मिट्टी में बैठे है। शर्मनाक है ये, सरकारी स्कूलों का ये हाल।” (English translation: Now #tell me those who have #humanity in your #heart..!! 3,200 crore #statue, Central Vista or temples in the country, unlimited #donation, publicity #posters are necessary…. Or #school for education. The shabby school will not collapse, so the children are sitting in the mud. This is shameful… this is the condition of government schools.)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the claim, and found it to be FALSE.

Doing a simple Reverse Image Search directed us to a June 10, 2015 tweet that carried the same viral image. The text in Urdu can be translated into English as: “Mian Sahib has been ruling Punjab for thirty years, and the girls are getting an education on the metro bus”

Searching further, we found the same image uploaded on a Pakistan-based website with the description that it is from a primary school for girls in Punjab, Pakistan.

In 2016, media activist and president of the Pakistan Supreme Court Press Association, Abdul Khiayum Siddiqui, had also tweeted the same image stating that it was from a school in Pakistan.

A school in Shujaabad District Multan pic.twitter.com/1QtW2VVXqh — Abdul Qayyum Siddiqui (@QayyumReports) March 23, 2016

The same image was also tweeted in 2017 by a user stating that it was from Pakistan.

Thus, it is clear that the viral image has been on the internet since 2015, that too, it is from Pakistan, NOT India.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news