An illustration of individual personal transports said to be drawn by Italian comics illustrator Walter Molino in 1962 has caught the attention of social media users during the pandemic.

People are looking at the illustration as the artist's premonition drawn 58 years ago on social distancing measures required during the Covid-19 pandemic.

Claim

Multiple users on Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter have posted this illustration of men and women travelling inside the city in individual enclosed oblong dome-sized vehicles.

advertisement

One of the Facebook post captions says, "Suggested individual personal transports during the Covid-19 worldwide pandemic in 2020. Artist Walter Molino ~ La-Domenica-del-Corriere cover, December 1962."

The Truth

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this to be a misleading. The illustration of Walter Molino with the caption "Will we go around town like this?" published in the Italian newspaper "La Domenica del Corriere" in 1962 was his futuristic solution to the traffic problem in big cities. His creation had nothing to do with a pandemic.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

AFWA Probe

With the help of reverse image search, we found that this viral image had been circulating on the internet earlier as well.

In 2016, people posted this image with reference to the modern mode of transport like the segway - a self-balancing two-wheeled vehicle.

These posts also suggest that this was an artwork by Italian artist Walter Molino and which was published in Domenica del Correre, in 1962.

With the help of keyword searches, we found two articles published in two different Italian websites, "Corriere Della Sera" and "Plurale", which wrote about this particular illustration of Walter Molino.

According to these articles, this graphic was indeed published in the December 16, 1962 edition of La Domenica del Corriere (Sunday Courier), an Italian weekly newspaper.

The Artist's Solution

The illustration was the artist's vision of Singoletta (or singlet) or single-passenger vehicles to alleviate traffic problems in the modern-day busy city life.

The headline of the article published in the website "Plurale" reads, "The Singoletta", the grandmother of the Segway designed in 1962 by Walter Molino".

The article also claims that the viral image along with another illustration on traffic issues on city streets drawn by the same artist was published in the edition of La Domenica del Corriere on December 16, 1962.

Walter Molino (5 November 1915 - 8 December 1997) was an Italian artist known for his series of political and satirical cartoons and comics published in various Italian publications.

Conclusion

The 1962 article with Walter Molino's illustration on "La Domenica del Corriere" never mentioned anything about the pandemic of 2020 or social distancing. It was solely written on the futuristic solution to the modern-day traffic problem in busy city life. The viral image was the artist's vision for a future vehicle that would reduce traffic problems.