From exposing alleged corruption in the force to challenging Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the election -- sacked BSF jawan Tej Bahadur Yadav has always been in news. A video has recently gone viral where netizens claim that he is consuming alcohol with some people.

Facebook page 'Aji Haan' posted the video with a sarcastic comment in Hindi: "Sapolo dekhlo apne daal bahadur jija ko..."

advertisement

The Samajwadi Party recently fielded Yadav as its candidate from the Varanasi seat against PM Modi. However, his candidature was cancelled. On Monday (May 6), Yadav moved the Supreme Court challenging the Election Commission's decision.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has confirmed that Yadav is present in the video. But this video is more than two years old, according to Yadav.

This 1.40-minute video being circulated mainly on Facebook was posted on Friday (May 3). It appears that the video was shot by someone secretly. In the video, two men are seen chatting with drinks and food kept in front of them. There are other people also in the room as their voices are audible. The person wearing shorts introduced the other person in a white shirt as Tej Bahadur Yadav, "the former BSF commando in Indian army".

From the very conversation, it looks like the man who is speaking loudly about Yadav is in an inebriated condition. They can be heard making fun of different abbreviations of police forces like DP (Delhi Police) and PP (Punjab Police). It is difficult to ascertain from the viral video if the other person sitting quietly is Yadav.

Yadav tries to stop the other man who is ranting by often saying "aaram se aaram se". "Yadav" can also be seen smoking and drinking in the viral video.

Hundreds of people commented on this viral video, while some doubted whether it was Yadav.

This video has been shared by more than 13,000 people till the time of filing of this story. This video along with the same caption has been posted by many users on Facebook.

Many people questioned Yadav's integrity while some people commented in his favour, saying there is no harm in drinking.

AFWA contacted Yadav who told us that he was aware of this viral video and accepted that he is the person seen drinking alcohol in the video. "It is a two-and-a-half-year-old video shot somewhere in Delhi. I was sitting with some Delhi police personnel," confessed Yadav. He vaguely recollected the incident and said sometime in 2017, he was having drinks with one Manoj Sharma of the Delhi Police and other few people whose names he could not remember. "These people recorded it secretly and tried to blackmail me," claimed Yadav.

advertisement

Yadav made the headlines after he posted a video online complaining about the "sub-standard" food served to the troops. He was dismissed from the force in 2017 after the court of inquiry found that he had damaged the "image of BSF". He again grabbed the headlines after he decided to fight against the prime minister as an Independent candidate from Varanasi in the ongoing Lok Sabha election. Later, SP-BSP-RLD alliance made him their candidate against Modi but his nomination was cancelled by the Election Commission, citing his failure to submit a certificate that he was not sacked for either corruption or disloyalty.

There is no mention of election in the entire conversation in the video, indicating that it could be old. However, we couldn't verify this video independently.

UPDATE-

Another video has surfaced on social media which shows Tej Bahadur Yadav in inebriated condition bragging that if he is given Rs 50 crore, he can get Modi eliminated. However he says he will not do anything which is anti-national. The video seems to be in continuation of the same viral video discussed in the above story. But there is no solid evidence in this clip too on the basis of which the timing of the video can be determined, conclusively.