Researchers around the world have been working to develop a vaccine for the novel coronavirus which has till date infected more than 8 million people globally. Amid this, a Facebook post has gone viral with the claim that the Tanzanian government has approved a herbal medicine called Covidol, which will cure patients suffering from Covid-19.

Along with pictures of Tanzanian President John Magufuli and health minister Ummy Ally Mwalimu, images of Covidol are being circulated on Facebook with the caption, "Tanzania government comes out with the Cure of Covid 19 ,Efficient well and approved by the national health committee, May all might God bless the efficient leadership of honorable #PRESIDENT DR #JOHN_JOSEPH_POMBE_MAG UNFURI. and the minister of healthy honorable #UMMY_MWALIMUI,,Ameen WELCOME TANZANIA THE LAND OF HEALING. GLORY BE TO GOD ALL MIGHTY".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false as the Tanzanian government has not approved the medicine as a Covid-19 cure. Neither has Covidol gone through clinical trials nor is there any scientific evidence that it can cure the disease.

The archived version of the post can be seen here (http://archive.today/uqCrX). Multiple Facebook users have shared the post.

AFWA probe

The viral claim about the herbal potion appears to have originated from statements made by Dr Hamis Malebo, a research scientist at the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR), Tanzania.

According to several news reports, Dr Malebo promoted Covidol during a show on Tanzania Broadcasting Service on May 11.

Soon after, netizens began to claim that Covidol has the potential to cure Covid-19 and it has been approved by the Tanzanian health ministry.

As per news website "Swahili Times", various government authorities, including the Tanzanian health ministry, do not recognise the drug as it has not been approved by the government.

On May 3, the Tanzanian health ministry issued a statement clarifying that no medicine to cure Covid-19 is available as of now. The ministry warned the public against the use of untested medicines.

Even the World Health Organization (WHO) has said that there is no cure for Covid-19 yet. Covidol has neither gone through clinical trials nor has it been approved by the Tanzanian government or any recognised scientific laboratory. Hence, the claim made in the viral post about the herbal potion is wrong.