International organisations and laboratories are racing against time to come up with a successful vaccine for COVID-19.

In the meantime, a disturbing video purportedly showing animal cruelty circulating on social media claims this is how monkeys are being tortured in laboratories to test the COVID-19 vaccine.

The viral video posted by various users on Facebook shows how monkeys screaming as they're strapped into upright positions in metal neck braces and their arms restrained on rests.

advertisement

In some portions, monkeys are seen shivering and moving restlessly in pain in metal braces. People are seen in personal protective equipment administering injections on the animals.

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim. The viral video is from last year has no connection to the COVID-19 vaccine. This was an undercover video exposing animal torture inside a German laboratory from 2019. Animal rights activists were outraged after this exposure and demanded immediate closure of the lab.

The archived version of the posts are saved here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of the InVid reverse image search, we found several news articles with a similar video and images of animal cruelty published last year.

Website of German broadcaster "DW Urdu" published a video story on October 20, 2019, with a headline saying "No animal comes back alive from this laboratory".

As per this story, a video made with the help of hidden cameras in a German research laboratory by an animal protection group shows cruelty on animals inside the laboratory.

The DW video clip shows a small portion of the same video that went viral. Some of the frames are identical.

Viral video

DW news clip

On October 18, 2019, website of "Euro News" published an article on the same incident with images and video from the same video clip.

According to this news report, eight-minute undercover footage, released by animal rights groups SOKO Tierschutz and Cruelty-Free International, exposed the disturbing situation of the animals in a German testing laboratory.

As per the article, the footage was filmed at the Laboratory for Pharmacology and Toxicology (LPT) in Mienenb¼ttel, south-west of Hamburg, by an undercover agent working as an animal keeper assistant.

Outraged by this exposure the animal rights activists demanded immediate closure of the German laboratory.

Conclusion

It is true that monkeys are being used in animal trials for the COVID-19 vaccine in various laboratories. This has also been reported by the media. But the particular viral video showing animal torture is from last year reportedly from a German laboratory. And this video has no connection to COVID-19 vaccine tests.