A viral message circulating on social media with regards to COVID-19 claims that Singapore doctors have found that WHO has hatched a conspiracy to mislead people about the disease and its treatment. The message further claims that Singapore’s health ministry has finally found a treatment procedure for the virus. The viral message further goes on to claim that coronavirus is not a virus but bacteria, and antibiotics can cure COVID-19. Additionally, it also says that a major cause of death in COVID-19 is thrombosis or blood clot. It further says that intensive care units and ventilators are never needed to treat COVID-19 patients. The message states that Singapore Ministry of Health changed the treatment protocol for COVID-19 and gave aspirin to its positive patients.

According to the message China already knew about the protocol treatment but they did not disclose it. The message has multiple claims regarding treatments, nature of the disease, its origin and root cause of death. The message claims to be an authentic information by the Singapore Ministry of Health.

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Crescendo received many fact-check requests about this video on our WhatsApp FactLine (9049053770).

What is written in the message?

The message states that “MUST READ – IMPORTANT

Singapore has become the first country in the world to perform an autopsy (post-mortem) for a Covid-19 corpse. After a thorough investigation, it was discovered that Covid-19 does not exist as a virus, but rather a bacterium that has been exposed to radiation and causes human death by coagulation in the blood.

Covid-19 disease has been found to cause blood clotting, which causes blood clotting in humans and causes blood clotting in the veins, which makes it difficult for a person to breathe because the brain, heart and lungs cannot receive oxygen, causing people to die quickly.

To find the cause of the shortage of respiratory energy, doctors in Singapore did not listen to the WHO protocol and performed an autopsy on COVID-19. After doctors opened arms, legs, and other parts of the body and carefully examined them, they noticed that the blood vessels were dilated and filled with blood clots, which impeded blood flow and also reduced the flow of oxygen. In the body it causes the death of the patient. After learning about this research, the Singapore Ministry of Health immediately changed the treatment protocol for Covid-19 and gave aspirin to its positive patients. I started taking 100 mg and Imromac. As a result, patients began to recover and their health began to improve. The Singapore Ministry of Health evacuated more than 14,000 patients in one day and sent them home.

After a period of scientific discovery, doctors in Singapore explained the treatment method by saying that the disease is a global trick, “It is nothing but a coagulation inside blood vessels (blood clots) and a method of treatment.

Antibiotic tablets

Anti-inflammatory and

Take an anticoagulant (aspirin).

This indicates that it is possible to treat the disease.

According to other Singapore scientists, ventilators and an intensive care unit (ICU) were never needed. Protocols for this effect have already been published in Singapore

China already knows this, but it has never released its report.

Share this information with your family, neighbors, acquaintances, friends and colleagues so that they can get rid of the fear of Covid-19 and realize that this is not a virus, but a bacterium that has only been exposed to radiation. Only people with very low immunity should be careful. This radiation also causes inflammation and hypoxia.Victims should take Asprin-100mg and Apronik or Paracetamol 650mg.

Source: Singapore Ministry of Health”

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by breaking down the message into different parts according to individual claims

Claim 1: Singapore conducted autopsy on Covid-19 patient

With the help of a keyword search we found that the Singapore health ministry clarified through its official Facebook page that the country has not performed an autopsy on any Covid-19 victim and the claims made in the post are scientifically baseless.

The Facebook post stated that “Singapore has not performed such an autopsy. The message states false information concerning the pathophysiology of COVID-19 infection, which is not borne out by current evidence. An earlier version of this circulating message, which mentioned Russia instead of Singapore, has also been exposed as untrue.”

Archive Link

Claim 2: Covid is caused not by virus but bacteria

We referred to the study by Lancet study on genomic characterisation and epidemiology of the new coronavirus which clearly mentions that 2019-nCoV is a novel betacoronavirus from the subgenus Sarbecovirus. 2019-nCoV is most closely related to other betacoronaviruses of bat origin, indicating that these animals are the likely reservoir hosts for this emerging viral pathogen.

A PDF published by the Indian Ministry of Health and Family Welfare also clearly states that Corona viruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans. The most recently discovered coronavirus causes coronavirus disease COVID-19.

Fact Crescendo contacted Dr. Hira, Director of LNJP Hospital, Delhi who clarified that COVID-19 is not a bacteria but a virus. The genetics of the virus is available online on several authorised websites.

According to WHO, Covid-19 is a disease caused by a new coronavirus called SARS-CoV-2. WHO has clarified the myth that Covid-19 is caused by bacteria and not a virus on their myth busters as well.

Claim 3: Anti-inflammatory drugs and antibiotics can cure Covid

To understand the role of antibiotics in coronavirus treatment, Fact Crescendo contacted Dr. Hira, Director of LNJP Hospital, Delhi who clarified there is no role of antibiotics in treating the novel coronavirus, but these antibiotics are administered to resist secondary or collateral bacterial infections which is very common in a patient with low immunity. But the antibiotics absolutely cannot cure the COVID-19 virus. These antibiotics are not effective against the virus itself.

What is the role of antibiotics in treating COVID-19 patients?

According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, India antibiotics do not work against viruses, they only work on bacterial infections. COVID-19 is caused by a virus, so antibiotics do not work on it. Antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment of COVID-19. They should only be used as directed by a physician to treat a bacterial infection.

According to National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) which is part of the United States National Library of Medicine, a branch of the National Institutes of Health. Bacterial and fungal infections are common complications of viral pneumonia, especially in critically ill patients. They lead to increased need for intensive care and increased mortality. The presence of bacterial and/or fungal secondary infection or coinfection is likely another important factor affecting mortality. In such cases antibiotics are used to treat the secondary infection caused by bacteria.

Claim 4: WHO is against autopsy on Covid victims

We searched for the guidelines and rules and regulation set by WHO for the autopsy of Covid positive patients. We could not find any rule or guidelines issued by WHO which mentions that the Covid positive patients are not supposed to be autopsied.

We found the guidelines issued for autopsy on Covid positive patients by WHO and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention which states that “Ensure that personnel who interact with the body (health care or mortuary staff, or the burial team) apply standard precautions, including hand hygiene before and after interaction with the body, and the environment; and use appropriate PPE according to the level of interaction with the body, including a gown and gloves. If there is a risk of splashes from the body fluids or secretions, personnel should use facial protection, including the use of face shield or goggles and medical mask”

In India, the first autopsy of a Covid victim was claimed to be done by The Oxford Medical College, Hospital & Research Centre in Bengaluru in October 2020. A clinical autopsy done on the dead body of a 62-year-old COVID-19 patient in Bengaluru, who died after 14 days of treatment, has revealed that the virus was active in the mouth, throat and nasal area 18 hours after his death. The autopsy was conducted by forensic expert Dinesh Rao, who heads the Department of Forensic Medicine in Oxford Medical College and Research Institute in the city.

Autopsies of Covid fatalities have also been done in several other countries, including in the United States, United Kingdom, Italy and Russia.

Claim 5: Major cause of death is blood clot and not pneumonia

To understand the facts behind this question we need to know what thrombosis really is? According to the North American Thrombosis Forum thrombosis is the formation of a blood clot, known as a thrombus, within a blood vessel. It prevents blood from flowing normally through the circulatory system.

As per several leading science journal, Nature and scientific studies in the American Journal of Hematology available on Wiley Online Library, thrombosis or coagulation of blood cells or blood clots is a frequent complication found in COVID-19 patients. WHO has also recommended the use of low-molecular-weight heparin in clinical management of patients suspected of being affected by COVID-19 to prevent complications related to “venous thromboembolism”

According to Lancet, respiratory failure has been found to be the leading cause of death for coronavirus patients. Dr. Hira says that “There is no specific research or studies conducted to prove that thrombosis is the major cause of death among COVID-19 patients in India. But I would say that it is one of the reasons which does not rule out pneumonia as well. Since this disease is fairly new even till now as new strains keep on coming up. Doctors and scientists are trying to understand it thus to blankly say that thrombosis is the major or only cause of death is blown way out of proportion. Thrombosis, pneumonia and respiratory failure are certain causes of death among the patients. Treatment for thrombosis can be a blanket treatment for every Covid patient.”

Claim 6: Ventilators and ICUs are not needed to treat Covid patients

According to Dr. Hira from LNJP, Delhi, COVID-19 patients with critical respiratory illness or multi-organ or renal failure are often treated in ICU with ventilators. But not all coronavirus patients require ICU and ventilators. But to say that ICU and ventilators are absolutely not needed would be very wrong, because to save the patient is our ultimate goal. So, in case of a critical patient if ventilators are required, I think no one would hesitate to provide the same.

Sergio Harari, director of the Pneumology Operative Unit of San Giuseppe Hospital in Milan, Italy, said in an interview to Italian newspaper “Corriere della Sera” that most deaths are due to interstitial pneumonia and respiratory failure. To say that patients should not be intubated is totally out of the question.”



Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above-mentioned viral message to be False. The message is baseless and has no credibility. The Singapore Health Ministry has clarified that no such message was issued by them.