Following a 27-month-stint in jail in connection with several cases, including that of land grabbing, Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan was granted bail earlier this year in May. In its aftermath, a video featuring Khan has gone viral with some questionable claims.

In the video, Khan was seen saying that Lord Rama and Krishna were his ideals and not Mughal emperors. Those sharing the video claimed that Khan’s stint in jail caused him to change his tune. While sharing this video, Facebook users wrote captions like, "Azam Khan after spending 27 months in jail."

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room found these posts were misleading. This video from Agra is nearly five years old. The viral clip was cut short to rob it of its context.

Similar posts are archived here and here.

AFWA Probe

The viral video shows Khan talking from a stage. As we found no reports suggesting Khan spoke before a crowd recently, we searched with relevant keywords to find the original video.

Results led us to multiple news reports from October 2017 that mentioned Azam Khan's words. An Amar Ujala report, published on October 6, 2017, noted that Khan took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath while speaking at the SP's national convention.

Subsequent searches led us to the original video from which the viral clip was snipped out. It was uploaded to Samajwadi Party's official YouTube channel on October 7, 2017.

Around the 14 minutes 10 seconds mark of the original video, Khan referred to Holy Quran and said, "Allah has sent one lakh 20 thousand messengers of God to the earth and the Prophet has said that do not insult anyone’s religious sentiment or any great man. Because they may have been a messenger of God or Allah."

He then added, "Yogi Ji, Mughals were not our ideals, Lord Rama, Lord Krishna are our ideals. But Yogi Ji, the second-largest community of our nations wants to know from you, do you consider Prophet Muhammad and Jesus Christ as your ideal? let us know."

Per an ABP News report published around the same time, Khas delivered this speech in Agra during the tenth National convention of the SP.

Thus, we concluded that Khan did not call Lord Rama and Lord Krishna his ideals after his recent bail. Rather, he said this five years ago in Agra while taking a dig at PM Modi and UP CM Yogi Adityanath.