After violent protests in Kanpur on June 3, 2022, over controversial remarks made by suspended BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma on Prophet Mohammad, a video is widely being shared on social media, in which two men can be seen holding guns and firing on road while people are running around. It has been claimed that the video in question is from Kanpur.

The viral video is shared with a caption: “ये हैं कानपुर के जिहादी जो खुल्लम खुल्ला अत्याधुनिक हथियारों से कर रहे था अंधाधुंध फायरिंग और पुलिस सिर्फ आंसू गैस के ही गोले छोड़ रहीं थी,इनका इलाज हैं सीधी गोली एक बार अगर दस बीस उड़ गए तो फिर ये लोग जल्दी से हिमाकत नहीं करेंगे” (English translation: “These are the jihadis of Kanpur, indiscriminately firing with modern weapons while the police only using tear gas shells. Their treatment is a direct bullet and once 10 or 20 are shot, then these people will not do the mistake”)

The link to the post can be seen here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile did the fact-check, and found the claim to be misleading.

On putting one of the keyframes of the video through Google Reverse Image Search, we found the same video was uploaded by a YouTube channel All Rights Magazine on May 6, 2021.

The video was shared with a caption: “बरेली में गौतस्करों की गुंडई, थाना भोजीपुरा क्षेत्र के धौरा टांडा टाउन में लहराए अवैध हथियार और चलाईं गोलियां, इलाके में भगदड़।” (English translation: “Cow smugglers bully in Bareilly, illegal weapons and bullets were fired in Dhaura Tanda town under the Bhojipura police station, causing a stampede in the area.”

A keyframe of the viral video also featured in a report by Amar Ujala, dated May 12, 2022, with a caption claiming that the clash took place between two groups of the same community in Dhaura Tanda, Bareilly.

The Bareilly Police also tweeted a video and said that the incident was associated with purchasing and selling meat at high prices. The official statement also said that appropriate action was taken.

Thus, we can ascertain that the viral video is old and is not associated with the recent communal clashes that took place in Kanpur, UP.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news