Russia, which hosted the 2018 FIFA World Cup, now stands suspended from the Qatar edition of the tournament following the invasion of Ukraine. On March 1, 2022, FIFA and UEFA released a joint statement, expelling Russia from all international football competitions.

Meanwhile, a post is going viral on social media with the claim that Russian President Vladimir Putin has threatened FIFA.

advertisement

The viral postcard uses an image of FIFA President Gianni Infantino and Putin alongside the World Cup trophy. "Russia will play at the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup or there will be no world cup to talk about," the post read.

Several Twitter users posted the card with similar captions, suggesting that the Russian President has threatened FIFA.

Putin said that “FIFA must not enter into war politics, The National Football team of Russia will play FIFA World Cup in Qatar, or there won’t be WORLD CUP at all”#UkraineRussianWar pic.twitter.com/317FLmrQvN— Truthteller (@Truthte83602973) March 4, 2022

Archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be false. There is no evidence to prove that Putin made any such threat in response to the suspension of Russian football teams from the global event.

AFWA Probe

Using a few combinations of keywords, we searched Google Russia and the Russian search engine Yandex for related results. But we found no reports that supported the claims being made by users on social media.

If Putin had spoken on the subject, it is highly unlikely that the media would have skipped his remarks. So, we tried getting further details of Russia's reaction to the ban imposed by FIFA.

Keyword search led us to a report published by Spanish sports media giant Marca on March 03, 2022. The report noted that the Russian Football Union (RFU) has decided to appeal against FIFA's decision at the Court of Arbitration for Sport. However, there was no mention of Putin threatening FIFA.

A Fox Sports article published on March 4, 2022, also reported the same.

On Twitter, we also found a press release of the Russian Football Union that stated that they will appeal to the CAS (Court of Arbitration for Sport) against the decision by FIFA and UEFA. There was no mention of the Russian President here either.

Russian Football Union confirms it will appeal its expulsion from football and called for an accelerated hearing to ensure there’s a decision before March’s World Cup playoffs. pic.twitter.com/NiRsajnHvT— tariq panja (@tariqpanja) March 3, 2022

advertisement

Therefore, it is safe to conclude that Vladimir Putin has not threatened FIFA over the suspension of Russia from the upcoming football World Cup.

(Inputs by Riddhish Dutta)