The ongoing tussle between farmers of Holland and the state is intensifying with each passing day. Over 40,000 farmers are protesting against the government’s proposal to reduce emissions of various harmful pollutants produced by their livestock.

Against this backdrop, a viral image claiming that farmers have taken their PM’s private jet, and a fighter plane, is doing rounds on social media.

A Facebook user shared the post with the caption: हालैंड में किसान आंदोलन अपने चरम पर है किसान उस प्राइवेट जैट को टोचन कर ले गए हैं जो वहां के पीएम के लिए है! एयर फोर्स के फाइटर जेट को भी टोचन कर लिया है (English translation: The peasant movement is at its peak in Holland, the farmers have taken the private jet which is there for the PM! Air Force fighter jets have also been shot down)



You can find the link to the post here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim and found it to be misleading.

On running a Reverse Image Search on Yandex, we landed on a website called Jutarnji. Learning more about the website, we found out that Jutarnji is a local Croatian newspaper and that the image was published on May 26, 2011. Another local newspaper, 24sata, too, published similar images.

On investigating the news further, we found out that the 2011 photo was taken ahead of the 20th-anniversary celebrations of the creation of the Croatian armed forces. The MIG aircraft was being towed with the help of a tractor, through the streets of Zagreb, to Jarun for a military weapons display in the capital.

To confirm the credibility and the existence of the exhibition we, then, looked up the official website of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and found the same image on the website.



We also noticed an image on the tail. On looking closely at the image, we found out that it matches the national emblem of Croatia.

Therefore based on our research, we can conclusively say that the viral image claiming farmers of Holland taking away PM’s jet and a fighter plane is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news