More than 50 doctors and healthcare workers in India have tested positive of coronavirus. Deaths of doctors from Covid-19 have also been reported from different states.

Amid this, a photo of a woman is going viral on social media with the claim that this is Dr Megha Vyas from Pune who died of Covid-19 while treating patients infected with coronavirus.

advertisement



India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the photo to be misleading. The woman in the viral photo was not a doctor and she died of pneumonia and not due to coronavirus infection.

The caption of the misleading post says, “Another #CovidWarrior Dr Megha Vyas from Pune gave her life saving patients. May God give her Sadgati”. The archive of the post can be seen here. The misleading post is viral on Facebook and Twitter.

AFWA investigation

While investigating the photo, we found some comments by social media users saying the lady's name was Megha Sharma who died recently in Pune's Jehangir hospital. To confirm the same, we reached out to the hospital's medical representative Dr Lt SS Gill.

Dr Gill clarified that the patient's name was indeed Megha Sharma and she was not a doctor at the hospital. The woman died due to pneumonia and multiple organ failure on April 22, 2020. She had also tested negative for Covid-19.

AFWA also accessed the test result report given by the hospital to the patient's family. The letter clearly says that Megha Sharma died of pneumonia and not coronavirus.

AFWA also spoke to Megha's husband Shrikant Sharma who said the social media posts about his wife are "bogus". He said his wife was not a doctor but a housewife, and she had tested negative for Covid-19.

Shrikant said he will file a complaint against those spreading misinformation about his wife's death. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad too confirmed that Megha did not die of Covid-19.

Pune reported almost 1,000 cases of coronavirus by April 25, with over 60 casualties.

But the claim about a doctor named Megha Vyas succumbing to the virus while treating her patients is not true. Also, the photo used along with the claim is of a different person.

READ | Police constable abducted by militants in J&K's Shopian rescued

ALSO READ | Pakistan Army shells forward areas along LoC in Rajouri

advertisement

WATCH | Should China pay for coronavirus crisis?