Amid panic and misinformation about Covid-19 on social media, one more message is circulating on Facebook, claiming that the government is going to spray chemicals overnight to kill the novel coronavirus.

The claim asks residents not to come out of their houses from 10 pm on Wednesday night till 5 am on Thursday morning.

Facebook users such as 'Tejinder Singh Sidhu' claim this is a message from health authorities in Chandigarh, while some others claim this will happen in Bengaluru.

advertisement

The archived version of Sidhu's post is saved here.

The viral message reads, "Hello, I kindly request you not to come out of your house after 10 pm tonight till tomorrow 5 am.... As their will be spraying medicine in the air in order to kill the COVID-19!! Share this information to all your friends, relatives and your families...Thank you!"

Screenshot of viral claim

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false, as there is no such government order for residents of Chandigarh, Bengaluru, or any other city.

The message is viral on Facebook as well as on Twitter.

Claim going viral on Facebook

Claim going viral on Twitter

We found that no such order has been issued by any state government or the municipalities of Chandigarh or Bengaluru.

In fact, the 'PIB Fact Check' Twitter handle, which is meant for countering misinformation related to government policies and schemes, has denied this viral message and tweeted, "Amidst #Coronavirusoutbreak, misinformation on CV Vaccine gas spread out through Airplanes is circulating on social media. NO such action has been planned out by the Indian Government."

Amidst #Coronavirusoutbreak, misinformation on CV Vaccine gas spread out through Airplanes is circulating on social media

NO such action has been planned out by the Indian Government.



Get your facts from trusted sources. Do not amplify #fakenews! pic.twitter.com/8F5ksKKBEm PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) March 17, 2020

Also, no such vaccine to cure coronavirus is available worldwide and research to develop one is still under process.

Hence, these viral posts regarding spraying of chemicals to kill coronavirus is bogus.