On Wednesday, August 5, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the first brick for construction of the grand Ram temple at Ayodhya. Days before today's "bhoomi pujan", the temple trust had appealed for donations from all sections of society so the construction could be completed according to plan.

On social media, a viral post claims Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan will donate Rs 5 crore for the Ram mandir. Several Facebook users have posted a graphic collage of the actor and the temple plan, with a text superimposed on it saying, "Shah Rukh Khan Is Going To Donate 5 Cr. To Ram Mandir Trust For Making Ram Mandir".

advertisement

A purported clipping of "Dainik Bhaskar", inserted in the graphics, attributes the information to Red Chillies Entertainment. The Hindi text in this box translates to, "A senior manager at Shah Rukh Khan's company Red Chillies Entertainment has said that Shah Rukh Khan has ordered them to donate Rs 5 crore for the Ram Mandir trust." The author's name mentioned in the report is "Ravi Srivastava".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. Red Chillies Entertainment has called it fake news. The "Dainik Bhaskar" article used in the post is edited.

The archived versions of some of the posts can be seen here (http://archive.today/tetif), here and here.

With the help of keyword search, we could not find any news report about Shah Rukh Khan's proposed donation to the Ram temple trust as claimed in the viral post. AFWA contacted Red Chillies Entertainment for further confirmation, which categorically denied the viral claim, and called it incorrect and fake news.

We also could not find any news report published in "Dainik Bhaskar" related to SRK's donation for the temple construction. A recent report by correspondent Ravi Srivastava was about the temple trust appealing for donations. "Dainik Bhaskar" had tweeted this article saying that during lockdown, the trust has already received Rs 5 crore as donations.

Hence, the viral claim that Shah Rukh Khan will be donating Rs 5 crore for the Ram temple at Ayodhya and its attribution to "Dainik Bhaskar" is false.