Spread the truth:

A photo-shopped image is going viral on facebook where it was found that Congress President Rahul Gandhi, chief minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee, Punjab’s state minister for tourism and culture Navjot Singh Sidhu and newly joined Congress leader from BJP, Shatrughna Sinha sitting on chairs behind Pakistan Prime Minister ,Imran Khan. In the image it was found that Khan was discussing an issue with Pakistan’s Army General Qamar Javed Bajwa and the leaders are sitting at the back of Mr Khan.

The photo-shopped image has been shared multiple times since it was published on April 7, 2019 in a Facebook post and has been share for more than 4000 times. The post claim in Kannada that “Indian opposition politicians sitting in the corner of a room while the Pakistani prime minister talks to the country’s army chief.”

Here is the link of the post:

Here is the archived version of the post:

On 5th April, 2019 a popular handle on Twitter by the name of @Atheist_Krishna had posted the fake image on his twitter handle which got more than thousand likes and was retweeted. He is known and appreciated by many for his great image editing skills. Given his reputation, many recognized that it’s edited and replied to his tweet calling it fake but when the same editing image reached different platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp people started believing it to be true.

He tweeted “बालाकोट में मारे गए आतंकवादियों के सबूत जुटाने पाकिस्तान पहुंचा विपक्ष। “

Truth

SMHoaxSlayer contacted with some IT experts . Arijit Chowdhury a Kolkata based IT expert said “The photo-shopped image was downloaded randomly and placed on the seats and that’s why the color saturation for different images are different.”

SMHoaxSlayer ran a google reverse image search and found that the official twitter handle of Government of Pakistan uploaded the image on April 11, 2019, where Prime Minister Imran Khan and Pakistan’s Army General Qamar Javed Bajwa held a meeting to discuss the security related issues. The official twitter handle of Government of Pakistan has already twitted the photo, with a caption too.

Dunya News reported –

ISLAMABAD (Dunya News) – Prime Minister Imran Khan on Thursday met Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Qamar Javed Bajwa.

During the meeting, matters pertaining to situation along the eastern and western borders came under discussion.

Ary News reported

ISLAMABAD: Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Qamar Javed Bajwa called on Prime Minister Imran Khan at PM Office on Thursday, ARY News reported.

According to a statement released by PM House, the Army Chief discussed important security-related matters with PM Khan during the meeting.

Related