Even before the controversy over Narendra Modi's remark about Jawaharlal Nehru and Krishna Menon humiliating General Thimayya could fade away, the prime minister once again dragged the Congress - and history - into the electoral battlefield of Karnataka.

On May 9, at a public rally in Karnataka's Bidar*, Modi asked, "When Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Batukeshwar Dutt, (and) Veer Savarkar were jailed fighting for the country's independence, did any Congress leader go to meet them?"

advertisement

"But the Congress leaders meet the corrupt people who have been jailed", the prime minister said, probably referring to Rahul Gandhi's recent meeting with Lalu Prasad Yadav at AIIMS in Delhi.

But do historical facts back Modi's remarks?

The answer is no.

It's well documented that Nehru met Bhagat Singh in Lahore jail on August 8, 1929, when several inmates - including Singh - were on a hunger strike, protesting ill-treatment by prison authorities.

Many on social media have pointed this out. To check the authenticity of these reports, India Today accessed a verified copy of the Tribune newspaper's 10th August 1929 edition from the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library in New Delhi.

On the front page of its evening edition (published in Lahore), the paper printed news of a meeting between Jawaharlal Nehru, Bhagat Singh and Batukeshwar Dutt (among others). The headline: Pt. Jawaharlal Interviews Hunger Strikers.

Here's a close-up photograph of that edition. It clearly reads: "Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru, accompanied by Dr. Gopi Chand, M.L.C., visited the Lahore Central and Borstal Jails today and interviewed the hunger strikers in the Lahore Conspiracy Case. Pandit Jawahar Lal first went to the Central Jail where he met Sardar Bhagat Singh and Mr. B. K. Dutt with whom he held conversations about the hunger strikes..."

A picture of a report in the 10th August 1929 evening edition of the Tribune newspaper. (Accessed from the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, New Delhi)

'HE TALKED WITH GREAT GENTLENESS'

Nehru himself mentioned the meeting in his autobiography, and described how impressed he was with Bhagat Singh.

"I happened to be in Lahore when the hunger strike was already a month old. I was given permission to visit some of the prisoners in the prison, and I availed myself of this," Nehru wrote. "I saw Bhagat Singh for the first time, and Jatindranath Das and a few others."

WATCH | Cricketer Harbhajan Singh pays heartfelt tribute to Bhagat Singh in new video message

"They were all very weak and bedridden, and it was hardly possible to talk to them very much. Bhagat Singh had an attractive, intellectual face, remarkably calm and peaceful. There seemed to be no anger in it. He looked and talked with great gentleness, but then I suppose that anyone who has been fasting for a month will look spiritual and gentle."

Rahul Gandhi holding a bust of Bhagat Singh in Mohali in September 2008. (Photo: Reuters)

SHOCKED, SAYS J.N.U HISTORIAN

Jawaharlal Nehru University historian Mridula Mukherjee said she was "shocked" by the prime minister's statement.

"It is a known fact how Nehru and Bhagat Singh were fond of each other. When Bhagat Singh and other revolutionaries were in jail, he not only visited them, but also wrote a letter and gave an open statement after visiting them," she said.

"They had mutual admiration for each other."

Chaman Lal, another well-known historian, who has penned renowned books on Bhagat Singh, said there's no truth in what Modi said.

"There were certainly many differences between the revolutionaries and Congress leaders who followed Gandhi's principles. But they also had great respect for each other. Particularly Jawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bose were held in high regard by the revolutionaries," he said.

* NOTE | The picture in the lead image is from a rally in Bengaluru.

advertisement

WATCH | India Today Poll of Polls: Can Congress hold on to Karnataka?