Spread the truth:

Claim: “आतंकी रियाज नायकू के मारे जाने के बाद जम्मू कश्मीर के अवंतिपुरा में सैकड़ों लोगों की भीड़ ने सुरक्षाबलों पर पथराव किया

पर देश द्रोही मत बोलना इनको,,, वरना ये वही घिसी पीटी लाइन सुनाएंगे,,,”सबका खून शामिल है इस मिट्टी में”,, अरे थू है ऐसे खून पर”

Translation: “After the killing of terrorist Riyaz Naikoo, people started pelting stones on the security forces in Avantipura. Don’t call them anti-nationals, otherwise, they will start with the same lines, “Everyone’s blood is present in the soil of this country.”

A picture claiming that the people have started pelting stones at the security forces, after the killing of terrorist Riyaz Naikoo in Jammu and Kashmir has gone viral on social media.

FACEBOOK

This particular post has over 2.2K shares, with people reactions of over 3.3K

Archive

Archive

Soon, a lot of people started sharing the image with various captions,

TWITTER

The picture was widely shared on Twitter as well.

This particular post getting over 464 retweets, and over 1000 likes.

आतंकी रियाज नायकू के मारे जाने के बाद जम्मू कश्मीर के अवंतिपुरा में सैकड़ों लोगों की भीड़ ने सुरक्षाबलों पर पथराव किया

पर देश द्रोही मत बोलना इनको,,, वरना ये वही घिसी पीटी लाइन सुनाएंगे,,,"सबका खून शामिल है इस मिट्टी में",, अरे थू है ऐसे खून पर 😠😠😠😠😠 pic.twitter.com/vAUqe2GD7g — Sushma Dwivedi _Stay Home🏠🙏🏼 (@SushmaDwive89) May 6, 2020

Archive

Archive

Soon, a lot of people started posting the image.

Truth

The image is from 2018. Upon doing a Google Reverse Image Search of the image. It led us to a Hindustan Times article published on June 22, 2018.

It was found that the photo was clicked by Waseem Andrabi for Hindustan Times in 2018.

According to the Hindustan Times report, four militants suspected to be running a local module of the Islamic State (IS), a policeman and a civilian were killed in Nowshera village of Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, on June 22, 2018.

More than 20 civilians were injured in the clashes between the police and the local residents. The image is of the clashes that took place.

Hence, it is established that the image is NOT of people pelting stones at the security forces in Avantipura as claimed in the viral posts. It has to be noted that the image is of 2018 and has no relation to people pelting stones at the security forces after the killing of terrorist Riyaz Naikoo.

Related