Local media owner confirmed to Fact Crescendo that the viral video dates back to 2019 when massive crowds took to streets for protesting against CAB.

On 6th December 1992, raging crowd of volunteers called Karsevaks stormed and demolished what used to be called Babri Masjid in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. This led to violent communal riots across the country resulting in loss of many lives. On 6th December 2021, social media was set abuzz due to threats made by Hindu Organizations that vowed to repeat Ayodhya like feat in Mathura. Some Hindu organizations had announced that on this day an idol of Bal Gopal (Krishna) would be installed in the Shahi Idgaah in Mathura. This gave rise to a tensed situation in the city with tightened police security to avoid communal tensions and violence in the city.

Amidst this, a video showing massive crowd on the road is circulating on social media with the claim that Krishna devotees in Mathura broke the barricades on the road meant to stop formation of large crowds.

The caption of the post stated, “Hindu unity is now paying off Sanatani is becoming one now. A glimpse of it in Mathura when Krishna devotees broke the barricade in Mathura Hail lord krishna Everywhere Shiva.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image on google with one of the key frames of the video. The results led us to the Facebook user named Inside Northeast who posted his video on 12 December 2019. The post mentioned that the video shows a protest that took place against CAB in Nagaon, a district in Assam.

The caption of the video mentions, “In Nagaon, mass display of resentment against the Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB) was witnessed. This is one of the countless protest rallies taken out in the name of the Bill that was passed in the Rajya Sabha yesterday.”

Fact Crescendo contacted the owner of Inside North East who confirmed to us that the video is from Nagaon in Assam and was shot during a CAB protest in 2019.

We found several local journalist in Assam who has posted similar videos in December 2019 stating that the video shows CAB protest being carried out in Nagaon in Assam. Further, we found several news reports stating that huge rallies had been carried out in several districts of Assam like Jorhat, Golaghat, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Sivasagar, Bongaigaon, Nagaon, Sonitpur against the Citizenship Amendment Bill passed in December 2019. According to the report, protesters pulled down barricades on the arterial Guwahati-Shillong Road, prompting the police to burst tear-gas shells and take recourse to a baton-charge. Protesters burned tyres, blocked highways, and rail lines.

120 km due east, citizens of Nagaon hit the streets. pic.twitter.com/B6TdNEsohl — Rituparna Bhuyan (@rituparnabhuyan) December 12, 2019

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim shared with the viral video on social media to be False. Video shows massive crowds protesting against the CAB in Assam in 2019. The video does not have any relation with Mathura. The people rallying in the march are protestors rallying against the Citizenship Amendment Bill and not Krishna devotees marching towards Idgaah mosque in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)