As the Russian invasion of Ukraine entered its second week, a video was circulated on social media with claims that it captured missile attacks in Ukraine.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claim along with the video was misleading. This video was a compilation of clips from two different incidents, one in South Korea, and the other in Afghanistan.

advertisement

AFWA probe

In the first part of the 17-minute-long viral video, we found Korean text written on the weapons used by soldiers.

Around the 12.24 mark, a whiteboard could be seen with text written in English and Korean. The Korean translation reads, "ONE SHOT! ONE KILL! Air defense missile shooting competition, Air defense missile launch division". We also noticed the logo of the Republic of Korea Air Force on the whiteboard.

Right after that, there was also a shot with the South Korean flag visible very clearly on a wall. This confirmed that the video was from a competition held by the Korean Air Force, and not a real war.

Taking a cue from this, we ran a keyword search in English and Korean. This led us to a video with the same visuals uploaded on the official YouTube channel of the Republic of Korea Air Force on October 24, 2016.

As per the description provided by this channel, the video was from a live missile shooting competition that was held on October 18 and 20, 2016.

In 2017, the channel had uploaded videos with similar visuals from the shooting competition. The location of the video was a shooting range in Daecheon in the South Chungcheong Province of South Korea.

Several other YouTube channels also shared this video.

Meanwhile, the part seen between 3.43 and 11.42 in the viral video was from a military operation in Afghanistan.

In that section, Afghan flags were seen at two points. One of the soldiers in the video was wearing a badge that resembled the Afghan flag.

Taking a cue from all this, we ran a reverse search of the keyframes of this video with appropriate keywords and found a longer version of the video uploaded by several YouTube channels over the years.

According to a YouTube channel that uploaded a 25-minute-long version of the same video in June 2018, the footage was from a 2013 military operation of the "U.S. Army Special Operations Forces with soldiers from the 3rd Infantry Division and Afghan Special Operations Forces (Afghan Commandos)," against the Taliban.

advertisement

In this clearer version of the video, we could also see "US Government Property" written on a cardboard box kept inside an army vehicle.

Over the years, several YouTube channels and websites carried this video - or screenshots from it - and attributed them to Afghanistan.

In one of the videos, we were also able to see English-speaking soldiers trying to communicate with non-English speakers with the help of gestures and translators.

While we could not ascertain the year of the military operations seen in the video, it is clear, however, that the video was from Afghanistan and shows the coalition forces alongside the Afghan Army fighting the insurgents.