Spread the truth:

Claim: A video of a few men brutally beating a woman has been going viral on social media with the claim that it is an event on communal violence where the Muslim community is being oppressed. In the video few men are violently hitting a woman, she is crying out in pain and police can also been seen at the spot who are watching the entire scene.

The message attached with the viral video reads as follow:

“Muslims are oppressed in India and will continue to be oppressed if we do not protect them. It’s time to be unity. The Indian government will account!

#ModiResignation”

Facebook

Few people have shared the video on Facebook and some have attached a link of a twitter handle that shared the video with the same claim.

Archive

Archive

Twitter

The video is extremely viral on Twitter. It has received more than 2000 shares and 4000 likes. A verified account by the name of Ali Keskin has also tweeted the claim.

Muslims are oppressed in India and will continue to be oppressed if we do not protect them. It's time to be unity. The Indian government will account! #ModiResignationpic.twitter.com/uNM7cz3tLE — Ali Keskin (@alikeskin_tr) May 23, 2020

Archive

Terrorism in India is being monitored by the police. A woman is being beaten. Modi government's RRS is oppressing Muslims as well as the rest of the minority. Modi has handed over the whole of India to a terrorist organization. Knows that India is a terrorist country@UN pic.twitter.com/bGyCtDk4XW — Hassan khan (@hassan_khan_78) May 23, 2020

Archive

Muslims are oppressed in India and will continue to be oppressed if we do not protect them. It's time to be unity. The Indian government will account! #ModiResignationpic.twitter.com/eRnTUMryP9 — Fazl Khan (@fazlkhan22) May 23, 2020

Archive

Muslims are oppressed in India and will continue to be oppressed if we do not protect them. It's time to be unity. The Indian government will account! #ModiResignationpic.twitter.com/Ix0FdMblKA — Adil Mehmood (@AdilMeh48655872) May 23, 2020

Archive

Truth

The viral video has no communal angle to it and the message floating with it is wrong. Upon doing a key frame and key word search, it was found that the incident is of a woman getting beaten up by her husband and his brothers and nephews. The incident occurred in village Adharapur of Rehra Bazar, Thana in Balrampur district, Uttar Pradesh. 2 policemen who were present at the scene didn’t help the woman. 4 men were arrested and 2 policemen were suspended with respect to this case. The wife’s name is Susheela and husband’s name is Ashok and the incident occurred due to a dispute regarding selling of house.

A video was found by Indian Times News Agency on YouTube that reports the incident with the video that is going viral. Tweet by Balrampur Police was also found where Dev Ranjan Verma, Balrampur Superintendent of Police is giving a press conference about the incident. An article reporting this incident was also found on Amar Ujala’s website.

Thus it is clear that there was no communal angle to this incident, it is a video of domestic violence. Domestic violence has greatly increased after the Covid-19 lockdowj within the country.

Attached below this the tweet by Balrampur Police through their official twiiter handles, news video uploaded by Indian Times News Agency and the screenshot and link of the article on the same incident by Amar Ujala.

Source: Balrampur Police

Source: India Times News Agency

Source: Amar Ujala

Related