A social media user ????? ??????? shared a woman lying on the floor.He Further, sharing the video he wrote, “Please help to forward this video till it reaches to their management and action taken against such employees. Lets show them power of common man. Heart & Diabetic Patient seeking for medical service inspite of they call security & forced her to go out of the airport.

Lets make such shameless employees unemployed & Think before you book Air-India flights.This video of Delhi International Airport Terminal 3 for Air India flight AI 823. PNR was J84KT.

Note: Recording is for 1min out of 60min of Incident.

Case:

We’re 3 people at the airport and there was some technical issues going on @ security check-in point. Additionally, we had a heart & diabetic lady patient with us. Knowing the situation, we already communicated Air-India staff to help us in check-in due to technical issues at the check-in point. They strictly denied us any assistance by saying the security check-in issue is none of our business.

However, we made check-in successfully. We called Air-India staff again to inform them that we have cleared check-in & we are moving towards gate 32B but we will be late by 5 min due to having a Heart & Diabetic Patient with us & she can’t run. My cousin reached the boarding gate within 2min & I reached after him with my aunt. They literally closed gates for us & other passengers like us even if we intimated (plane was yet to fly after 30min).

My cousin had his final year VIVA on the same day on which he missed the flight.

And, my aunt got anxiety which turned into a panic attack, and she fainted there on the spot. We asked for a medical emergency. But, instead of that a staff called security and asked them to leave us at the exit gate.”

Soon the video went viral on the internet.

Fact Check

On our fact check analysis we got a clarification on the official handle of Air India.

#FlyAI : Air India statement on Delhi Airport Video . pic.twitter.com/mHgUkWk13p — Air India (@airindia) May 11, 2022

Conclusion

Air India refuted the claims of the viral video and called it misleading. And, the doctors were called immediately.