As India celebrated its 73rd Independence Day on Thursday, a video of jets performing an air show has gone viral on social media.

The claim

The claim attached with the video says it is the celebration of India's Independence Day at Trafalgar Square in London. The video shows jets flying in a pattern and producing smoke trails of green, white and red.

advertisement

The fact

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video has nothing to do with India's Independence Day celebration and it is a clip of Italy's Republic Day ceremony in Rome.

The video went viral with netizens claiming that the video is of India's Independence Day celebrations in London.

The video with the misleading claim was also shared as India's Republic Day celebrations earlier this year.

Request everyone to watch this 1 minute video without miss.

This is an amazing forward from Trafalgar square, London during the celebration of 72nd India’s Independence Day.Jai Hind pic.twitter.com/Eaxb0abNQZ N Shekar (@n_shekar) January 27, 2019

The probe

Upon reverse searching one of the frames of the video, we found an article of Xinhuanet according to which the visuals are from Italy's Republic Day ceremony in its capital Rome. With the help of keywords, we found several videos of Italy's Republic Day ceremony in which similar visuals of the viral video can be seen.

Republic Day in Italy

Italy celebrates its Republic Day on June 2 in which its Air Force jets perform synchronised stunts forming the Italian tricolour. The building which is seen in the viral video is Vittorio Emanuele II Monument from where the Republic Day parade starts.

The Italian national flag can also be seen in the viral video.

Incidentally, the Indian and Italian flags have nearly similar colours, due to which social media users can get misled easily.

The Italian flag has vertical pales of green, white and red, whereas the Indian flag has horizontal pales of saffron, white and green. So when such air shows are performed in the sky, viewers are prone to be misled.