A video clip of a public rally with "Islam Zindabad" slogan playing in the background is circulating on social media with the claim that this rally took place in Kolkata, West Bengal.

The Claim

Several users on Facebook and Twitter have shared the video with the caption: "This is not Karachi, Kashmir or Kerala. No, this chant of "Islam Zindabad" is being raised in Kolkata, capital city of #MamataBanerjee-ruled #WestBengal !".

advertisement

A Bengali song including the words "Islam Zindabad" can be heard playing in the background of the viral video.

The Truth

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this viral video is not from Kolkata, West Bengal but from Dhaka, Bangladesh. The viral clip is from the year 2017. The rally was organised by an Islamist political party in Bangladesh - Islami Andolon Bangladesh - in protest against the military crackdown on Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar.

The archived version of the posts are saved here, here and here.

The same video was tweeted by author and columnist Tarek Fatah with an identical misleading claim. He later apologised for the post and deleted the same after people pointed out that the video was from Bangladesh, not from Kolkata.

Multiple Facebook users have also posted the same content with the wrong claim.

AFWA Probe

With the help of InVid reverse image search, we found that several people have uploaded the viral video on YouTube on September 13, 2017, which can be seen here, here and here.

The video titles mentioned in Bangla that the video is from a public rally held in Dhaka by Islami Andolon Bangladesh to protest against the killing of Rohingyas in Myanmar.

By searching keywords, we also found news articles published on September 13, 2017, by The Financial Express and Bangladesh news portal Bangla News 24.

These reports again mentioned how people in Dhaka took to streets against the killings of Rohingya Muslims in the northern Rakhine state of Myanmar.

Islami Andolon Bangladesh organised the event and planned to gherao the Myanmar embassy in Dhaka but were stopped by the police at Shantinagar Chowk.

We identified the Bangladesh flag being waved by the protesters in the rally seen in the viral clip.

We also found a news clip of the same rally uploaded by a Bangladeshi news channel Channel i where the background score "Islam Zindabad" is missing and we can hear the regular ambience of a rally.

advertisement

We have found that the background song in Bengali "Islam Zindabad" was actually sung by a Bengali band called Kolorob Gosthi and it was overlaid on the viral clip. The original song can be heard here.

Conclusion

The same viral video posted by several Facebook users with different misleading claims was also debunked by DailyO a few days ago.

Hence, it can be concluded that the viral protest rally video with misleading claims was held in Bangladesh in 2017 and not in Kolkata.