As many as seven civilians have been gunned down by terrorists in Kashmir in the last six days, with Pakistan-based groups suspected to be behind the targeted killings.

Amid renewed violence in the Valley, a video of some people raising anti-Pakistan slogans is being shared on social media with the claim that Indians in London have called for boycotting Pakistani shops and restaurants in the UK capital.

The archived versions can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is more than two years old. Indians in London were demonstrating against the Pulwama attack in 2019, calling for boycott of Pakistani commercial establishments.

AFWA probe

With the help of keyword search, we found the same video uploaded by ANI on its YouTube channel on February 17, 2019.

According to ANI, the video shows British Indians staging a demonstration against Pakistan over the Pulwama attack. The attack on February 14, 2019, is considered one of the deadliest terror strikes in J&K that resulted in the death of 40 CRPF jawans.

“Zee News” and “Outlook Magazine” had carried the same video on February 17, 2019, with credits to ANI.

According to reports, following the Pulwama incident, hundreds of Indians had gathered outside the Pakistan High Commission in London in

protest.

A longer and clearer version of the viral video uploaded by a user on YouTube on March 24, 2019, can be seen here.

We found another video similar to the viral one but shot from a different angle in front of the Pakistan High Commission. This video was uploaded by Facebook user Manu Khajuria Singh on February 17, 2019, as from a gathering of Indians in London against Pakistan-funded terrorism in J&K.

A comparison between the longer version of the video and the one uploaded by Manu Khajuria Singh confirms that the viral clipping is from a 2019 protest in London against the Pulwama attack.

With the help of Google Maps, we were also able to geo-locate the video and confirm that it was shot in front of the Pakistan High Commission in London. A Google Street view of the Pakistan High Commission can be seen below.

Hence, it is clear that the video of an Indian man in London calling for boycott of Pakistani shops and restaurants is from a 2019 demonstration against the Pulwama attack, and not recent.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Conspiracy theory claims Facebook outage was linked to Zuckerberg’s crypto ambitions