The viral video is not related to the ongoing protest against the Agnipath scheme. It’s an old video from Kashmir.

Indian Army has come up with a new recruitment scheme known as “Tour of Duty” or Agnipath scheme in which civilians can be inducted into Indian Airforce, Army or Navy for four years. It is a short-term recruitment plan for a period of four years.

Several parts of the country witnessed violent protests by youths who demanded the government to take back the TOD or Agnipath scheme. Amidst this, a video showing few protestors attacking a police official is circulating on social media with the claim that the incident took place in Bihar. It is further claimed that an Army aspirant retaliated and attacked the Bihar police amidst the ongoing Agnipath scheme protest.

The caption of the post states, “Army boy against Bihar police, Army lover.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on YouTube, whose results led us to the same video published by AP Archive on 22 August 2021. The caption of the video states, “Police fire teargas to Muslim mourners in Kashmir.”

The description mentions, “(17 Aug 2021) Police in Indian-controlled Kashmir fired tear gas and warning shots to disperse Shiite Muslims who attempted to participate in processions marking the Muslim month of Muharram. Dozens of people were detained. Hundreds of Muslims chanting religious and pro-freedom slogans took to the streets in the main city of Srinagar despite security restrictions banning the traditional procession.”

Thus, it is clear that the video is not related to the ongoing protests against the Agnipath scheme.

According to Associated Press, hundreds of Muslims chanting slogans took to the streets in the main city of Srinagar despite security restrictions banning the traditional procession. Government forces used batons to beat journalists covering the procession, according to a local reporter. Police in Indian-controlled Kashmir fired tear gas and warning shots to disperse Shiite Muslims who attempted to participate in processions marking the Muslim month of Muharram.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video to be False. The viral video is not related to the ongoing protest against the Agnipath scheme. The video is not from Bihar but from Kashmir. On 17 August 2021, Police in Kashmir fired tear gas and warning shots to disperse people who gathered in light of the Muharram processions.