Haryana has often been in the news due to the farmers' protest for over one year now. But this time it's trending on social media for a completely different reason!

If some netizens are to be believed, the white-and-blue buses of Haryana Roadways would now be changed to red. Some pictures of red buses with 'Haryana Roadways' written on top are also being shared with the claim.

advertisement

The archived versions of some of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claims to be misleading. While Haryana Roadways already has several deluxe red buses in its fleet, the colour of low-fare white-and-blue buses isn't going to be changed anytime soon.

AFWA probe

Using keyword search, we tried to find media reports on whether the colour of Haryana Roadways buses would be changed, but did not find any. We then visited the website of the Haryana Directorate of State Transport and found the same white-and-blue buses on top. This confirmed that the bus colour hasn't officially been changed yet.

Searching this website, we did not come across any directive that the bus colour would be changed in the near future.

We then conducted a reverse search on the viral pictures and came across the official Twitter handle of Haryana's information and public relations department. This handle had retweeted a post by its fact-check team rubbishing the viral claim.

The said tweet also had one of the images circulating on social media. It further mentioned that red buses are already in service for Haryana Roadways as a mode of deluxe transportation.

To know more about this, we searched the Internet for Haryana Roadways deluxe buses and came across an article published in "The Times of India" where Volvo buses of Haryana Roadways can be seen.

Going back to the Haryana Directorate of State Transport website, we found similar images of red Volvos in the booking section.

Therefore, it can be said that the viral claim is not true as the colour of Haryana Roadways buses is not being changed to red.

(Inputs from Riddhish Dutta in Kolkata)