Social media is going gaga over a video of school kids marking their attendance through an identity card scanner. It is being claimed that the video is from a school in Delhi, where the Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has installed this high-tech machine for attendance.

The video post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is not from Delhi but Rawalpindi in Pakistan.

advertisement

Facebook page "Shyam Prakash" posted the video along with a caption in Hindi that translates to, "See how Kejriwal has transformed the schools in Delhi. People from all over are coming to see them. As soon as kids mark their attendance, their family receives a message."

Till the filing of this story, this post has been shared more than 30,000 times. The archived version of the video can be seen here. The video is quite viral on Facebook.

AFWA probe

To verify the claim, we ran a reverse search on one of the keyframes in the video. We found the same video posted by a Facebook user from Pakistan named "Gul Laghari" with a caption in Urdu that roughly translates to: "Students' attendance in a private school in Rawalpindi. Online attendance system with SMS alert to parents." The video was posted on July 31.

We probed deeper and found the same video posted by "Bilal Keyani" on the same day with a similar caption.

However, Bilal reposted the video around a week ago where he tagged "Leadian's School System". His Facebook bio says he is a managing director at Leadian's School System & Montessori in Rawalpindi, Pakistan.

We contacted Bilal who confirmed that the system has been installed in all the five campuses of the school in Islamabad and Rawalpindi. Whenever the children enter or leave the school, they have to punch into the attendance system, and parents get the intimation through SMS. Bilal said the viral video is from the Rawalpindi campus of Leadian's School System.

We also found the same video posted on the school's Facebook page on July 31 at 7.50 am. We also found photographs of Bilal delivering speeches and distributing prizes to students on the school's Facebook page.

On comparing the viral video and the photos posted on the Facebook page of the school, we found the similarities in the uniform of the students.

However, to confirm whether the Delhi government has installed any such system in any of its schools, we tried to get in touch with them. We will update the story as soon as we receive a reply.

But it is clear that the viral video has nothing to do with Delhi or the Arvind Kejriwal government. The video is from a school in Rawalpindi, Pakistan.