Controversy never seems to leave Nirmala Sitharaman. A video clip of the Finance Minister at the Parliament has gone viral in which netizens are claiming she spoke insensitively while answering questions regarding rising onion prices across the country. In the posts, she is quoted as saying, 'I don't eat onions, so it doesn't matter to me.' But did Nirmala Sitharaman say this?

advertisement

Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi was among others who slammed the Finance Minister on social media. Singhvi tweeted,

"#SayItLikeNirmalaTai I don't eat onions so #onionprice doesn't affect me. I have high cholesterol so salt prices don't affect me. I don't have xyz so price of xyz treatment doesn't affect me."

#SayItLikeNirmalaTai

I don't eat onions so #onionprice doesn't affect me.



I have high cholesterol so salt prices don't affect me.



I don't have xyz so price of xyz treatment doesn't affect me. Abhishek Singhvi (@DrAMSinghvi) December 5, 2019

Here is the archived version of the tweet.

The hashtag #SayItLikeNirmalaTai soon started trending on social media. At the time of writing this article more than 32 thousand tweets were posted criticising the Finance Minister.

Gaurav Pandhi another twitter user posted the same claim.

The Onion prices across the country is skyrocketing, basic meals of the poor & the middle class is affected and Finance Minister's response: "I don't eat onions, so it doesn't matter to me"



Anti-people and insensitive Govt! pic.twitter.com/cGnffB4s9u Gaurav Pandhi (@GauravPandhi) December 4, 2019

Here you can see the archived version of the tweet.

Facebook user BJP exposed posted a screenshot of a news article and wrote, 'Neither will I have food, nor will let others to have food - Modi. Neither will I eat onions nor will I let others eat onions- Nirmala Sitharaman.’

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room has found the claim to be misleading as Sitharaman’s quote was blown out of context.

On Wednesday the Finance Minister was interrupted while answering a question raised by the Congress MP Supriya Sule regarding the rising onion prices. After Supriya finished her question, another parliamentarian (who cannot be seen in the video clip) screamed and directed a question at the Finance Minister, 'Do you eat Egyptian onions?’

Sitharaman in between answering to Supriya’s question responded to this parliamentarian and said, "I don’t eat onions, so don’t worry."

AFWA carefully listened to the debate in the parliament and found that Sitharaman didn't say, 'It doesn’t matter to me’. Instead, she said, "I don’t eat much garlics and onions, so don’t worry. I come from a family where onions and garlics are not used that much."

advertisement

She didn’t say 'Neither will I eat onions nor will I let others eat onions’, as claimed by Facebook page BJP Exposed.

Here is the video clip uploaded by Loksatta TV on YouTube.

Later Sitharaman too tweeted, ...A part of this video clip is being quoted out of context and is misleading.’

Here is the full video of Smt @nsitharaman explaining in detail the steps taken by the govt. to control onion prices and provide relief to the common man. A part of this video clip is being quoted out of context and is misleading. pic.twitter.com/56MLd1gKpU NSitharamanOffice (@nsitharamanoffc) December 5, 2019

So it can be concluded that Sitharaman’s statement was taken out of context and social media claims are misleading.