As United States President Donald Trump landed in India for a two-day visit on Monday, a video of a structure similar to Taj Mahal is getting viral on social media. It is to be mentioned that after his address at Motera stadium in Ahmedabad, Trump made a visit to the Taj Mahal in Agra.

The viral video shows a fire engine spraying water on the monument. It is being claimed that the Taj Mahal was washed ahead of Trump’s visit.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the monument in the viral video is not the Taj Mahal of Agra. In fact, it is a replica of the Taj Mahal built in an amusement park named People’s Mall in Bhopal.

The 45-second video was put up by a Facebook page called Meena Music with a caption in Hindi that translates to, When Taj Mahal was bathed for Trump: Taj and Bapu are alike, they are criticised by Modi but also cared for due to his selfish gains. The archived version of the post can be seen here .

AFWA probe

To verify the claim, we watched the video carefully and found that the floorings of the original Taj Mahal of Agra and the one in the viral video are different.

We ran an Internet search with the keywords Taj Mahal replica and found some videos of the same in an amusement park named People’s Mall in Bhopal. We found that the flooring and dolphin fountains in this monument look similar to the ones in the viral video .

This amusement park has replicas of all the Seven Wonders of the World. However, it is not clear when the viral video was shot.

Ahead of Trump’s visit to Agra, the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) had undertaken cleaning up of the monument using mud packs to remove dark spots. The graves of Shah Jahan and Mumtaz Mahal were also given mud pack treatment.

Many prominent media houses had reported about this makeover. Hence, it is clear the viral video is from Bhopal where the replica of the Taj Mahal was washed.



Also Read | Fact Check: Before Trump’s visit, slum image from Mumbai passed off as Gujarat on social media

Also Read | Fact Check: This is not the bike accident video of Tamil actor Ajith Kumar