Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has a reputation for being tough on crime. It’s a reputation that has earned him the nickname “Bulldozer Baba”. The CM is often lauded on social media for the state government’s tough-on-crime policies.

In that context, a video of people being subjected to the so-called “murga” punishment in a police station has gone viral with the claim that this was how crimes were dealt with in Yogi Adtynath’s Uttar Pradesh.

advertisement

Many people on Facebook and Twitter have shared this video with Hindi captions like, “Yogiji's poultry farm”.

The India Today Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) found this video was not from Uttar Pradesh at all. It was from Pakistan.

The viral posts have been archived here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID and reverse image search, we found the viral video was uploaded on a Pakistani YouTube channel called “Urdu Updates” on March 29, 2020. The video’s title read, “How Mansehra police punish who violate lockdown, video viral now”.

Taking this as a clue, we searched with relevant keywords and found a news clip from Geo News, published on March 29, 2020.

The news report contained a longer version of the viral video and said that lockdown violators were given the “murga” punishment by cops in a police station in Mansehra, the capital of Mansehra District located in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, Pakistan.

The “murga” punishment, a common one employed in several South Asian countries, involves assuming a position resembling that of a rooster, by squatting and then looping the arms behind the knees and firmly holding the ears.

On March 30, 2020, a Twitter account belonging to the Mansehra police responded to a person who shared the video and called the action reprehensible. The police station’s account said it had taken note of the incident and informed that a probe would be carried out.

DIG hazara or DPO mansehra ny already is waqiya ka notice b liya hy...or ainda sy kisi b thany main is tarha ki punishment dainy sy baz rehny ka b kaha hy...enquiry ho rage hy jald ap ko agaa karen gy — Mansehra Police Official (@mansehrapolice1) March 30, 2020

Thus, it is more than clear that the video in question is neither from Uttar Pradesh nor recent. It’s a 2020 video from Pakistan.