An image of a woman in salwar-kameez is viral with the claim that she is a Pakistani teacher named Aasia Zubair who was suspended from a Lahore school for her “erotic figure”.

The caption of one such image on Facebook reads, “Teacher suspended for having sexy figure in Lahore, Pakistan”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false. The woman in the photo is an Indian model. Also, no such incident was reported by credible sources from Pakistan.

advertisement

The viral image is also superimposed with the screengrab of a tweet purportedly by “Aasia Zubair”, where she explains the ordeals she faced at the school.

“So Apparently I received a termination letter from my school administration stating that my body is too 'fit' or 'erotic' for me to teach classes of the secondary education students. We usually We wear decent shalwar kameez with dupatta at our school & I've no idea what else they wanted from me? Ridiculous #TooSexyToWorkSoFired,” the purported tweet reads.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we found that the viral picture was published by an online website called “Republic of Buzz” on August 17, with an article on the same claim.

“Her name is Aasia Zubair. She is 30 years old married woman with two children and is working as a teacher since last 12 years. On Tuesday, 11th of August, 2020, she was fired from her position on the basis of being ‘too sexy’ to teach students of secondary education,” reads a part of the article.

However, we couldn’t find any credible sources from Pakistan reporting the incident.



AFWA reached out to Muhammad Rizwan Safdar, senior editor in the Pakistan bureau of Gulf News, who confirmed to us that no such incident was reported from Lahore. “We feel the article was a propaganda piece. No media in Lahore reported the incident,” he said.

A further search on the Internet revealed that the viral picture is of an Indian model named Zoya Shaikh. We found that the same image was uploaded on the Instagram profile of Zoya Shaikh on February 14.

Her Instagram profile says she is an actor, fashion blogger and model.

This proves that the woman in the viral image is not someone called Aasia Zubair.

We further found a Twitter handle of one Aasia Zubair which was created recently, in June, and had only a few tweets. There was no such tweet as mentioned in the screengrab superimposed on the viral image.

advertisement

However, we found a mention of the “Republic of Buzz” article in her twitter handle on August 19.

Wtf is dis pic.twitter.com/xsa7YFG9jT — Aasia Zubair (@Aasiazubair908) August 19, 2020

Hence, it is clear that an Indian model’s picture was used to falsely claim that a school in Lahore suspended a teacher for being too curvy for her students. Also, no credible source reported such an incident from Lahore.

Also read: Fact Check: Netizens bake confusion over Tricolour cake, accuse Ankhi Das of insulting India

Also read: Fact Check: Is pollution control certificate mandatory for motor insurance claim?