A video of a group of Muslims protesting in front of a mosque went viral on social media. The video was shared with the claim that it showed people protesting in front of the Saharanpur Jama Masjid in Uttar Pradesh after they were stopped from offering prayers on the road.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claim was misleading. The row happened after the people offered prayers and exited the mosque. It was triggered by a journalist asking a provocative question to the people.

AFWA Probe

Soon after the video was shared online, Saharanpur’s Senior Superintendent of Police Akash Tomar issued a clarification saying the row took place after the namaz. According to Tomar, “Today, the Alvida Jumma was peacefully held in Jama Masjid, which comes under the Kotwali police station area in Saharanpur district. When people were returning after offering prayers from the mosque, some media personnel asked provocative questions to them, which made the boys break into a protest.”

He said that the situation was under control and that there was no dispute of any kind. He added that the District Magistrate and administrative officers were present on the spot and they talked to the people. Tomar said, “Misleading and untrue news is being spread by some media channels. An explanation will also be sought by issuing a notice against them by the administration.”

India Today also reached out to the Imam of Saharanpur Jama Masjid, Muhammad Arshad Gora. Reiterating the police version, Gora said that sloganeering started after the prayers.

He said, “Today (April 29, 2022) Alvida Jumma was held at Saharanpur Juma Masjid under tight security. People were upset because of this new ban on namaz on roads. But the police explained the situation to the believers who had gathered and the namaz was held inside the mosque. The ruckus and sloganeering you see in the viral video happened while they were exiting after the namaz. Some questions from the media provoked the youth. They were not protesting being stopped from offering namaz as claimed by some people.”

A video clip of the Imam explaining the matter can be seen below.

As per reports, it was mandated that in UP, Alvida Jumma prayers would be offered only inside mosques and not on the streets. Law enforcement officials were present all throughout the state to make sure the rules were followed and various religious leaders were reportedly informed of this in advance and were on board with this.

India Today’s Saharanpur correspondent Anil Bhardwaj, who was present at the Jama Masjid during the incident, confirmed to us that there was no protest demanding that namaz should be held on roads.

advertisement

Bhardwaj detailed the sequence of events: after prayer inside the mosque when people were returning home, certain journalists allegedly went to the crowd and asked questions about how they felt about not being allowed to pray on the streets. This, he noted, was what provoked the row.

A video shared by Bhardwaj showed how namaz was held inside the Saharanpur Jama Masjid. It can be seen below.

It is hence clear that the video in question does not show a protest demanding namaz on the streets. The row was provoked by certain journalists asking people about the decision to not allow prayers on the streets.

(With inputs from Anil Bhardwaj and Yash Mittal)