A photograph of an American women’s basketball team standing beside another team has caught the attention of netizens because of the distinct inequality in height.

While the women in red jerseys have ‘USA’ written on them, the country’s name is blurred on those wearing blue and white jerseys. Many social media users say this is the Indian Under-16 women’s basketball team squaring off against their US counterparts.

advertisement

“USA under 16 years old vs India under 16 years old,” reads the caption of the post on Facebook and Instagram.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the players in blue and white jersey are not from India but El Salvador. This picture was taken in Chile in 2019 during the FIBA League of the Americas U16 for women.

Using reverse image search, we found the original picture posted on several Facebook pages on basketball, photo galleries, and also on Twitter in June 2019. According to these posts, these are Under-16 basketball players from the USA and El Salvador. In these posts the blue and white jerseys are not blurred.

We found more such photographs of the two teams that were uploaded on YouTube in 2020. In one of the photographs, “El Salvador” can be clearly seen on the blue and white jersey.

We also found Spanish news reports from 2019 about the viral picture and the match. This photo went viral because of the shocking difference in heights among the players of the two teams.

As per the news reports, this photo was taken before the match between the USA and El Salvador, during FIBA League of the Americas U16 for women that took place in Chile in 2019. USA won the match 114-19 against El Salvador.Hence, it is clear that the viral post is misleading because the women in blue and white jerseys are not the Indian Under-16 women’s basketball team.

Also read: Fact Check: Man identifying as deer shot at by hunters? No, it's satire

Also read: Fact Check: Unrelated image shared claiming late Fr Stan Swamy tied to his hospital bed