External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, who has earned the enviable reputation of cutting the red tape of the government machinery to reach out and help people over Twitter, was in for a rude shock on Sunday.

Back from an official trip to Europe, she found herself at the receiving end of trolls and her Twitter account filled with many abusive comments. She was being targeted for the action against a passport officer Vikas Mishra in Lucknow who was in the eye of the storm for allegations about harassing an interfaith couple.

advertisement

Following the allegations, the couple got their passports made promptly and the officer Vikas Mishra was transferred to Gorakhpur.

The trolls felt that Sushma and her ministry went out of the way to appease the women who had converted to Islam and the Hindu officer was victimised for following due procedure.

Columnist, Shefali Vaidya (who is followed by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi) also tweeted about this episode.

But in a rare move, Sushma decided to turn the tables on the trolls by naming and shaming them.

Several offensive and abusive tweets first appeared on the Swaraj's timeline, calling her 'shameless lady', ' Sushma Begam' who is 'almost dead' and living on 'Islamic kidney' that should 'fail soon'. People initially thought that her account was hacked when they saw these offensive posts were retweeted and liked by Sushma herself and these posts were also shared on her Facbook page.

However, it was clarified by the ministry that her account has not been compromised and these posts were deliberately shared to highlight the issue.

Later, Sushma deleted the retweets but on her Facebook page the details of some of these derogatory comments are still there.

For the Viral Test, we decided to find out who are these people and what makes them use this kind of insulting comments against the External Affairs minister who is known to be helping people through her tweets.

To our surprise, we found that few of them have already disappeared from the scene by deleting the Twitter accounts which was used to target the minister. Probably, they got scared when Sushma retweeted their posts and they found the heat against them turning on.

The most abusive language against Sushma Swaraj was used by a Twitter used called @Yashu2600.

He has already deleted his Twitter account. We managed to retrieve some details of his deleted account. It looked something like this.

Similarly, Robin (@Mr_Rob1n) who prayed to God that "your kidneys fail once again'' also could not face the heat and deleted his Twitter account. His Twitter profile which is no longer available twitter had the following details.

We tried to get in touch with the people who targeted Sushma and managed to speak to two of them.

RJ ( @rajendra19811) who called the External Affairs Minister as 'Sushma Begam' lives in Bamania near Jhabua in Madhya Pradesh. His real name is Rajendar Singh Pawar. The 38-year-old man works in Kabul, Afghanistan for a USA based company Janus Global as assistant transport manager and is currently at his village on leave.

Pawar, whose Twitter cover page has a picture of PM Modi in army fatigues, admitted that he was upset with Sushma Swaraj even as he is a big fan of Modi.

His grouse? A year back, he had a hard time at Bhopal passport office where he went to renew his passport. He claims that he almost lost his job in Kabul because the passport officers in Bhopal wanted him to bring "police verification certificate from Kabul", which was next to impossible for him. Pawar says that then he had desperately sought help from Sushma over Twitter but things would not move at the passport office in Bhopal. He was issued a passport only for two years.

Now he has a valid passport for 10 years but "can't forget the harassment he had to go through''.

advertisement

"When I saw that this muslim lady can get her passport made just by tweeting to Sushma and all the laws were bypassed to favour her, I could not control my outburst'', says Pawar.

Mural artist Indra Bajpai, who lives in Haridwar was also among the one chosen by Sushma for highlighting the kind of hatred people have expressed against her.

When India Today spoke to her, she showed no regret for her statement -- "shame on you man is it the effect of your Islamic kidney'' against Sushma.

Indra is appalled to see how a "setting aside the norms Anas Siddiqui was handed over the passport in Lucknow office like a trophy and the passport officer Vikas Mishra was shunted out for doing his duty''. I am a hard-core BJP supporter, claims Indra, but is not afraid to call spade a spade.