A video has gone viral on social media where a woman is seen knocking off a priest from the stage during a public mass. Netizens claim that the woman got agitated after the priest said fat women won’t go to heaven.

Several Facebook pages such as "Is it funny or offensive" and "Fobs be like" have posted an article by Indiatimes.com with the headline "Priest Says Fat Women Won’t Go To Heaven, Woman Knocks Him Off The Stage".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this to be a misleading claim. The woman did push the priest off the stage in July this year in Brazil’s Cachoeira Paulista in front of approximately 50,000 people. But the priest never said that fat women won’t go to heaven.

Viral on Facebook and Twitter

The viral post has been shared by many on Facebook.

Several Twitter users have also shared this post. In fact, this video is viral on social media since July 2019.

In the seven-second video clip, a woman suddenly appears and pushes off the priest from the stage. It is, however, not clear what the priest says just before the incident.

In Brazil a priest says "fat women cannot go to heaven!"

And then pic.twitter.com/WiPWSvG4Ur Figen.. (@TheFigen) July 17, 2019





AFWA investigation

This incident was widely reported in international media as well.

According to these reports, the incident took place during a Sunday Mass in Cachoeira Paulista, a city in southeast Brazil. Padre Marcelo Rossi, a widely popular preacher in the country, was addressing a crowd of around 50,000 people, when a woman suddenly ran on stage and shoved him down.

The entire incident with the priest’s sermon can be seen in the longer video uploaded by Portal UAI on July 14, 2019.

International Fact Check website "Snopes" had spoken to a local journalist and got a translation of Rossi’s speech just before he was being pushed off from the stage.

The translation goes, These hands no longer belong to me. Sinners, weak, but these hands belong to Jesus, so much that the priest already acts in the person of Christ. To serve, to bless

It is, however, not clear why the woman knocked Rossi off the stage. As per several media outlets such as the Portugese website "O Dia", the 32-year-old woman was initially detained by police, but later released as Rossi did not press any charges against her.

As per these news reports, the lady was undergoing psychiatric treatment. It was also reported that the woman said the incident was between him and me when asked by police why she pushed the priest.

Therefore, it is clear that the woman did push the priest off the stage, the claim that he said fat women won’t go to heaven is misleading.