An emotional appeal by a child to save her mother from coronavirus has gone viral on Facebook. The viral post has a collage of two images one showing a woman in a hospital bed, and the other of a girl with tears in her eyes.

The message reads, “Please help save my mum I don’t want to lose her. Am not asking for money but prayer and single share. Oh My Heavenly Father, deliver everyone who shares this prayer from any form of CORONAVIRUS and DEATH. Please share to at least 5 groups on Facebook so she can get more prayers. Thank you and God bless you.”

advertisement

Just beneath the image is written “Bangablog.com” with the headline, “Pray for my mum she’s infected with COVID-19 please pray for her recovery”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral post to be misleading. The images of both the woman and the child are more than two years old and unrelated to each other. The woman in the viral picture is not a Covid-19 patient.

The post by Facebook user “Subodh Christian” has been shared more than 73,000 times till the filing of this story. The archived version can be seen here.

With the help of reverse image search, we found the original source of both pictures.

The image of the lady in the hospital bed was published on several news websites in 2015.

Reports published on “Daily Mail” and “itv” say that the woman named Jenny Bone, who was paralysed due to a rare condition, heard doctors asking permission from her husband John to switch off her life support machine while she was in a coma. The husband refused and she later recovered.

The image of the child with tears in her eyes is available on the Internet since 2018 as a stock shot in several websites such as “Adobe Stock” and and “Shutterstock”.

A website called “fineartamerica” had uploaded the photo with the caption, “Closeup Of A Young Girl With Tears Rolling Down Her Cheek is a photograph by Cat Simpson which was uploaded on October 22nd, 2018.”

Lakhs of people have been killed and infected by the deadly coronavirus in four months. By April 18 evening, Covid-19 has killed more than 1.5 lakh people and infected over 22 lakh across the globe. But this viral post appealing for Facebook shares and prayers with the images of a child and woman is misleading.