A video through a post is being widely shared on social media claiming that it shows an Army aspirant standing up to the Police during the protests against Agnipath scheme in Bihar. Let us fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video showing an Army aspirant standing up to the Police during the protests against Agnipath scheme in Bihar. Fact: The visuals of the video are from 2021 in Kashmir, not the from Bihar. On 17 August 2021, Police in Kashmir fired tear gas and warning shots to disperse people who gathered in light of the Muharram processions. The visuals were taken when a Kashmiri Shiite Muslim, with knives used for self-flagellation, tried to attack a policeman. Protests erupted in Bihar, against the Agnipath scheme introduced by the central government for recruitment into the Indian Armed Forces. However, this video is not from Bihar and not related to the current protests. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

When reverse image search is done on the screenshots of the video, a video with similar visuals was found on YouTube. ‘AP Archive’, the official YouTube channel of the Associated Press (AP), had uploaded the video on 22 August 2021. So, the video is old and is not related to the recent protests against the Agnipath scheme.

According to the Associated Press, the visuals were part of a religious procession in Kashmir. On 17 August 2021, Police in Kashmir fired tear gas and warning shots to disperse people who gathered in light of the Muharram processions. The visuals were taken when a Kashmiri Shiite Muslim, with knives used for self-flagellation, tried to attack a policeman.

Protests erupted in Bihar, against the Agnipath scheme introduced by the central government for recruitment into the Indian Armed Forces. However, this video is not from Bihar and has nothing to do with the current protests.

To sum it up, an old video from Kashmir is falsely shared as an Army aspirant standing up to the Police during the protests against Agnipath scheme in Bihar