Arvind Kejriwal has announced that the AAP’s chief ministerial candidate for Punjab will be announced on Tuesday, January 18. Party MP Bhagwant Mann is considered one of the front-runners for the post, and according to reports, even Kejriwal wanted to declare him the party’s face initially. However, the AAP later decided that people of Punjab should suggest names and they also launched a mobile number for the purpose.

advertisement

Mann faced a lot of flak due to his notorious drinking habit, and several videos of the MP in an inebriated state had emerged earlier. While in Delhi, the BJP has been up in arms against the Kejriwal government’s new liquor policy. And now, amid hectic campaigning for the Punjab assembly elections, a picture of Mann and Kejriwal sitting in front of liquor shops is circulating on social media.

Many, including BJP leaders Naveen Kumar Jindal and Impreet Singh Bakshi, have posted the picture from their official Twitter handles. The caption in Hindi translates to, “Both are sitting at exactly their favourite spots.”

Other such posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is morphed. In the original picture, Kejriwal and Mann are seen sitting on a cot amid mustard fields. This was during their interaction with farmers in Punjab’s Chamkaur Sahib a few days back.

AFWA probe

Using simple reverse search, we found the original pictures used to create the morphed image.

The AAP Punjab unit had released a short video of Kejriwal and Mann on their social media platforms on January 14, showing the duo sitting on a cot amid mustard fields and interacting with farmers.

AAP Punjab’s Twitter handle posted the video with a caption in Punjabi that translates to, “Meeting with farmers at Chamkaur Sahib @ArvindKejriwal and @BhagwantMann. CM stopped his vehicle on the way in Channi’s (Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi) constituency and interacted with farmers.”

In this video, we can see the exact moment captured in the viral image, with the background of mustard fields changed to liquor shops.

The original image of Kejriwal and Mann sitting in the mustard fields of Chamkaur Sahib was also published in “The Tribune” on January 14. The caption says, “A video grab of Bhagwant Mann and Arvind Kejriwal interacting with farmers in Punjab.”

We also found the image of the liquor shops superimposed on the viral picture in an article published in “Navbharat Times” in November 2020.

Hence, it is proved that amid the hullabaloo of Punjab elections, a morphed image of Arvind Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann has gone viral on social media with misleading claims.