Spread the truth:

A set of four photos is viral claiming be to old photos of of PM Narendra Modi, President Draupadi Murmu, Uttar Pradesh’s CM Yogi Adityanath and Maharastra’s CM Eknath Shinde.

BJP’s Delhi Spokesperson, Sarika Jain tweeted but later deleted

archived

A south Indian Website HashtagU published an article based on this

WhatsApp

Viral Text along with the set of photos –

“नीचे चार फोटो को देखकर आश्चर्य होता है कि भाग्य का खेल भी गजब है 👇 1प्रधानमंत्री 2राष्ट्रपति 3उत्तर प्रदेश मुख्यमंत्री 4महाराष्ट्र मुख्यमंत्री🖕👆🏻 💯 % True Story”

Truth

Out of the four photos claiming to be of the people under the position written on their photos, three are false.

First Photo- False

This photo was viral right after Modi ji became PM, somewhere around in 2014-15 but actually his face is morphed on someone else’s body. In ABP New’s tweet below, the left one is the original photo while the right one (in current viral set of photos) is fake.

Photo of PM Modi sweeping floor using broom was fake, confirms RTI reply#Politics #Indiahttps://t.co/5DloAWlbaK pic.twitter.com/BXzU9EChQw — ABP News (@ABPNews) January 21, 2016

Second Photo – False

On 23rd July, News18 did a story on President Murmu and things/stories related to her, her hometown etc. This photo is taken from that article claiming her to be Sukumar Tudu, a Safai Karmchari who felt proud when she heard about Murmu being selected as present and celebrated.

News18 wrote: “At Uparbeda’s primary health centre, we meet Sukumar Tudu, who works as a safai karmachari in the hospital and earns about Rs 1,500 a month. Sukumar and her husband Baiyadhar Tudu have one-acre land and have to work as daily wagers to make end meet.

She, along with many others, had danced and feasted the evening before Droupadi Murmu was elected President. Sukumar swells with pride when she speaks about someone from her community earning the highest job in the country, but her joy is tempered by the harshness of her own life.”

Third Photo – True

This photo, indeed is of Uttar Pradesh CM, Yogi Adityanath, right after he took Sanyas

Source: Amar Ujala

Fourth Photo – False

This photo is of Baba Kamble, founder president of Maharashtra Rickshaw Panchayat, Pimpri

Free Press Journal also debunked with all details

Related