Several videos and images of wildlife sightings in public places have surfaced on social media recently. Netizens say with humans "caged" indoors, nature is reclaiming its space during the Covid-19 lockdown.

One such heart-warming video of a deer playing on a sea beach is circulating on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp with the claim that it was spotted near Chandrabhaga in Odisha, on the Puri-Konark marine drive road.

advertisement As humans are caged at home, animals are thoroughly enjoying the opportunity! Somewhere on the sea beach near Chandrabhaga, along the Puri-Konark marine drive road in Odisha. pic.twitter.com/MA0VOo9ALF — Nitin A. Gokhale (@nitingokhale) April 7, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The viral video is four-and-a-half years old and has no connection to the lockdown. The video is not even from India; it was shot in south-western France's Landes region.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here (http://archive.today/MYfVn) and here. The post has been shared by many on Facebook.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID tool, we ran a reverse image search on keyframes of the video and found that a French wildlife filmmaker named Anthony Martin had posted the video on his Facebook page on November 10, 2015. Martin's Facebook post has been viewed 22 million times and shared almost 6.8 lakh times.

The filmmaker wrote a Facebook post in French, English and Spanish along with the video. "I am pleased to announce you that I have been working for three years on writing a script for a long feature film for cinema that will include the sequence of the doe playing with the ocean," reads a part of the post in English.

Martin uploaded this particular video on YouTube as well on December 2, 2019, with the caption, "BAMBI, THE TRUE STORY". A viewer asked Martin about the location, to which he replied in French that the video was shot in The Landes in southwestern France.

Martin's films on wildlife can be seen here.

Penguins, jackals, deer, foxes, peacocks and several other wild animals have been spotted on the streets across the world during lockdown. But the viral video of a deer playing on the sea beach has no relation to the lockdown in India. The video was shot more than four years back in France.