Is it true that you don't need to pay any toll charges if you make a return journey within 12 hours?

Sounds hard to believe, but this is exactly what is being claimed by a WhatsApp forward under the name of Road and Transport Minister, Nitin Gadkari. The message has been circulating on WhatsApp groups and Facebook for quite some time now.

advertisement

Two of our readers, including Bhanu Pratap from Delhi, sent us this message for verification.

The viral message reads-

Whenever you pay toll at a tollbooth, they ask u whether you wish to pay for one side or 2 sides (going and coming back). Tell them that you wish to pay for 12 hours. If you come back within 12 hours, there is no toll. The ticket stamps the time as well. The toll administration(s) makes lakhs of rupees by cheating the citizens due to lack of awareness of this rule. Please educate and inform others. Nitin Gadkari, Indian Government.

India Today Fact Check found these claims to be baseless.

Neither Gadkari has made any such statement nor has any such rule been notified by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). NHAI is responsible for maintaining majority of highways in India.

When we searched for this message on social media using the keywords, we found that the similar messages were shared way back in 2017.

India Today reached out to the Ministry of Road and Transport for a reaction.

Gadkari's office out rightly denied the existence of any such order or statement. They also shared with us a statement issued earlier, debunking the viral message being attributed to Nitin Gadkari.

The statement says It has come to MoRTH’s attention that there are statements being falsely attributed to the Union Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari regarding the Toll Rates. The Ministry wishes to clarify that the statements are wrong.

The detailed clarification can be read here.

We could also not find any media report which mentions the waiver of toll charges for the journeys completed within 12 hours. The rules notified by the ministry only says that for a return journey completed within 24 hours, there is provision for discount if toll tickets for the return journey are bought together.

Earlier, SM hoax Slayer and the Quint had also debunked this misleading message.