Kerala is battling a flood-like situation. A landslide in Idukki district caused at least 21 deaths on August 7. Five districts, including Rahul Gandhi’s Assembly constituency Wayanad, are on red alert. Along with several other pictures and videos of the grim situation in Kerala, a video of a cattle being washed away by raging floodwater is viral on social media with the claim that it is from the Wayanad district.

advertisement

One such claim along with a 30-seconds clip on Twitter read, “A cattle farm being taken away by floods in Wayanad, Kerala, with the cattle getting a free ride!”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Even though the flood-like situation continues to prevail in Kerala, the viral video is from Mexico when tropical storm Hanna caused heavy rains and led to the overflowing of the Zacualpan river.

The claim is also viral on Facebook and WhatsApp.

The archived versions of the claim can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID and reverse image search, we found that the clip purportedly showing a herd of cattle being washed away in Kerala is actually from Mexico that was hit by tropical storm Hanna on July 26, 2020.

We found an article published on July 27, 2020, by a Mexican news website “Como Sucedio” , which carried a longer version of the viral clip. The headline of the article translates in English to "Zacualpan River overflows in Nayarit and drags cattle".

According to the article, after tropical storm Hanna, the Zacualpan River in the state of Nayarit overflowed and carried away a herd of cattle and left damage to homes located on its banks.

Mexican newspaper La Jornada had also reported the incident.

We also found a longer version of the video uploaded on YouTube on June 28, 2020.

The 1-minute 40-second video was uploaded with the caption that translates into English as, “River Drag Cattle. Everything is rescued Zacualpan Nayarit 07/27/2020.”

Tropical storm Hanna which hit Mexico on July 26 has led to extensive damage and loss of property and cattle in the North American country.

Though the weather department in Kerala has issued a red alert warning several districts of heavy rainfall, the video showing a cattle being carried away in floodwaters are from Mexico and not Kerala.