A video of Samajwadi Party (SP) supporters cheering for the local district president Sajid Siddiqui by saying “Sajid Bhai zindabad” in Mumbai is being shared on social media with false claims that “Pakistan zindabad” slogans were raised.

The post reads: “#मुंबई में लगे #पाकिस्तान #जिंदाबाद के नारे… #ठाकरे सरकार में #सपा पार्टी के कोटे से मंत्री #अब्बू #आज़मी के सामने लगते रहे पाकिस्तान जिंदाबाद के नारे.”

Translation: “Pakistan Zindabad slogans were raised in Mumbai. Pakistan Zindabad slogans were raised in front of minister Abu Azmi, who has been selected in the Thackeray government through SP party quota.”

Many similar Fake News regarding “Pakistan Zindabaad” in India has been viral earlier which you can see at the end of the article

Facebook

Facebook user Azamgarh Baggi’s post has been shared over 1,700 times.

The Facebook page named Namocars shared the post with the caption: “Pakistan zindabad at Wadala station in front of Abu Azmi.”

Twitter

Following tweet by “Saaho_sher” was retweeted by more than 3100 times, deleted now but archived here

Gita tweeted, deleted now but archived here

On land of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj a very shameful act. On Wadala railway station in front of Namajwadi party leader Abu Azmi,

Slogans of "Pakistan Zindabad" were raised. It's same land were Bala Sahib didn't allowed Pakistani players to come!! As a hindu I feel betrayed!! pic.twitter.com/FvSQyh5B9j — That Kashmiri Guy (@ThtKashmiriGuy) May 17, 2020

WhatsApp

TRUTH

It’s Sajid bhai Zindabad, not Pakistan Zindabad.

The video is from 14th May 2020 when few Samajwadi Party workers, Abu Asim Azmi and Mumbai Police distributed essential items to the passengers traveling home at a Mumbai Station

In the video, one can hear slogans cheering Abu Asim Azmi, Mumbai Police, and district president of the Samajwadi Party, Sajid Siqqidui.

Slogans in the video chanted loudly by SP supporters –

“Abu Asim Azmi Zindabaad”

“Mumbai Ploice Zindabad” – 3 times

“Sajid Bhai Zindabaad” – 2 iImes (Claimed as Pakistan Zindabaad)

Sajid Siddiqui is a local Samajwadi Party member, he posted event related videos

We also found the video by Abu Asim Azmi who confirmed that Pakistan Zindabad slogans were not raised at the platform. Azmi also urged netizens to not fall for fake news.

The video was shot when Azmi visited CST station to see off one such shramik special train on May 14 that was travelling to Uttar Pradesh with migrant workers. The caption misleading the location as Wadala station instead of CST.

Abu Azami also shared the photos on Facebook.

We found the original TikTok video, which was uploaded by one Jabir Khan on May 15 on his TikTok account @jabirkhan406.

Archive

False Pakistan Zindabaad slogan viral earlier –

Source