Spread the truth:

Claim: “राहुल शादी शुदा दो बच्चो का बाप है। इसकी पत्नी कोलंबियन है।इसे १ लड़का (नियाक) और दूसरी लड़की (माईनक) है। सभी ब्रिटेन में रहते हैं।

( कुंवारा कहकर यह देश को गुमराह कर रहा है)”

Translation: Rahul Gandhi is married with two kids, his wife is Columbian. They have one son and a daughter together and live in Britain. (He is fooling the nation by saying that he is unmarried)

Picture of Rahul Gandhi with a woman has resurfaced and, gone viral with the claims that he is married to her and they have two kids together.

The post has gone viral on various social media platforms,

FACEBOOK

Archive

Many people have been reposting it on Facebook,

TWITTER

A lot of them posted the same image on Twitter,

Truth

After doing a Google Reverse Image of the image viral, it led to Nathalia Ramos. She is an American Spanish actress who has acted in various movies like ‘Bratz’ and the Nickelodeon TV series, ‘The House of Anubis”.

After scanning her social media profiles, we found the images that are viral. She has posted them on Twitter and Facebook in 2017.

She captioned it on Facebook on 14th September 2017 as, “Last night with the eloquent and insightful Rahul Gandhi. I feel so blessed to have the opportunity to meet and listen to so many brilliant thinkers from all parts and perspectives of the world. It is only with an open mind and an open heart that we can really make the world a better place. Thank you Berggruen Institute for opening mine. #IdeasMatter”

Archive

She uploaded the same image on her Twitter profile on 14th September 2017, captioning it, “Last night with the eloquent and insightful Rahul Gandhi…..”

Archive After looking for the news related to the event on the Internet with the keywords ‘Rahul Gandhi at Berggruen institute’ and found an article published in HuffPost written by Berggruen Institute president Nicolas Berggruen. The video of the same event was also found. It was one of the events Rahul Gandhi attended during his two-week visit to The United States of America, and he met Nathalia Ramos at the same event at the Berggruen Institute in Los Angeles in September 2017, where they both had participated at an event. The same image had gone viral in 2019, with several posts claiming that Rahul Gandhi met a pornstar in the United States, which was later debunked by AFP India.

Also, it is to be noted that there are no reports of Rahul Gandhi having kids.

Therefore, the claims that Rahul Gandhi is married to a Columbian and they have two kids are completely false. The woman in the picture is Nathalia Ramos who is an actor and they met in an event years ago.

Related