An image of a snow-covered street has been doing the rounds of social media along with the claim that it is the recent picture of the MA Jinnah Road in Karachi, Pakistan.

Various Facebook and Twitter users have posted this photo with the caption “MA Jinnah Road Karachi right now”.

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found the viral claim is misleading. The street seen in the viral photo is Darulaman Road in Kabul, Afghanistan. The viral photo was clicked by an Afghan photojournalist in February 2019.

advertisement

The archived version of the viral posts are saved here, here, here and here

TRUTH BEHIND THE VIRAL PHOTO

With the help of reverse image search, we found the viral image was posted on Twitter and Facebook by an Afghan photojournalist Aman Sedaqat in February 2019.

The caption to one photo Sedaqat uploaded read, “Darullaman Road at winter season, Kabul.”



With the help of appropriate keywords, we found several photos showing the same road and the long-boulevard connecting Kabul to the hills on the other side. The similar images of snow-covered Darulaman Road of Kabul were published in BBC and also in Afghan news websites.

Comparing the viral image with one of the pictures published in the Afghan news website, we found the same buildings and antennas atop the mountains.

Image from news website



Viral image

The Google satellite imagery of Darulaman Road also corresponds with the viral image.

The New York Times also used a similar image of Darulaman Road taken in 2016 in a news report about a gun fire in Kabul published in 2017.

The photos of Karachi’s Muhammad Ali Jinnah Road can be seen in the photo gallery of Getty Images.

We found that in winter the weather of Karachi drops to minimum 12 degree Celsius and does not generally receive any snowfall. The weather data for Karachi shows there has been no snowfall in the city in the last ten days.

Hence, we can safely conclude that the viral photo claiming to show the snow-covered street from Pakistan’s Karachi city is false.