Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the upcoming third wave in the country, social media is filled with information related to the effects of third wave and lockdown. Fact Crescendo has previously debunked many such claims and brought their authenticity to its readers. Amidst this a video of a news organization is circulating on social media where the news anchors can be heard giving information about the coming third wave in the country. The claims made along with this video is that due to the third wave, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced a complete lockdown in the country. The post states that due to the upcoming third wave PM Modi has announced a complete lockdown in the country from 1st to 8th of August 2021.

The title of the post that is going viral reads, “Lockdown again in the third wave in the country, PM Modi’s big decision / lockdown news today, school.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google ,however it did not lead us to any news article or any official information which could confirm that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced a complete lockdown from 1st to 8th of August due to the third wave.

Next, Fact Crescendo contacted Atul Kumar Tiwari, Director, PMO Media and Communications Department of PIB who clarified to us that the viral news on social media is false and misleading. He added “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not announced any kind of lockdown regarding the third wave of COVID-19. Had this been the case, then this news would have been seen in our official accounts and in the media but nothing like this has happened.”

After that we saw the video carefully and found that the anchor is giving information about the coming third wave in the country and saying that Prime Minister Modi is alerting the people about the coming third wave and he also told the people that if the carelessness continues, we will not be able to stop the third wave and the third wave is dangerous, while the second anchor is giving information that the World Health Organization has said that the third wave is spreading rapidly.

It needs to be mentioned that nowhere in this video does the anchor mention that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced a lockdown in view of the third wave in the country.

Thus, it is clear that the title and thumbnail of the video is only a rumor and is fake. The sensational title has been written with the aim of creating sensation among people and to get more clicks on the video.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found that the claim mentioned in the above post is False. PM Modi has not announced a nationwide lockdown amidst the upcoming third wave in the country. The viral graphic is fake and digitally created to get more clicks.