Spread the truth:

A Message is viral as News Flash, claiming Government of India is going to make Jammu as a separate state, Kashmir and Ladakh as Union Territories.



Following is the viral message –

News Flash : Government of India to Make Jammu separate state, Kashmir and Ladakh as union Terrortaries Means we can’t have any political party, and will be controlled by Delhi based Governor for ever. Order will be made in next 1 week. Curfew will be imposed 2 days ahead of order. It will automatically abrogate Article 370 and 35 A.

Facebook

The following post has been shared by more than 1800 people

Twitter

*_News Flash :_ Government of India to Make Jammu separate state, Kashmir and Ladakh as union Terrortaries Means we can't have any political party, and will be controlled by Delhi based Governor for ever. Order will be made in next 1 week. Curfew will be imposed 2 days ahead of pic.twitter.com/tCrEQqrPEz — Nihal_meer (@Nihal16594489) August 2, 2019

Whatsapp

What’s the truth ?

This message became viral from the moment the news flashed that Kashmir is being added with more soldiers which led to a doubt in people’s minds as no one is aware of what’s going on.

Srinagar: In view of the ongoing situation in Kashmir valley, Government has put the Air Force and the Army on high operational alert. https://t.co/pt36FNkC3g — ANI (@ANI) August 2, 2019

This became more of a mystery further when Government recommended Tourists and pilgrims to go back from Kashmir.

Amarnath Yatra pilgrims, tourists asked to leave Kashmir Valley immediately over terror threats https://t.co/wauKyhPbwt — Business Today (@BT_India) August 2, 2019

But strangely this message is no where to be found in credible media, so what could be the possible reason ?

Either the message is fake or highly confidential and someone leaked it which makes him/her a traitor.

Since this message sounds very important but is no where to be found except the usual rumor mongering platforms, we can safely assume this to be fake and let’s not spread this any further and wait for the real announcement.

More fakes

Related