Supporters of the Modi government are going ballistic over French warplanes.

They have pounded Facebook and Twitter with claims that Paris has added a free scheme to its Rafale deal with New Delhi.

France, says a post on a Facebook page titled Atal Modi with 1.7 million likes, has decided to gift 32 Jaguar and two Mirage-2000 fighter jets to India as a goodwill gesture.

False claims made by a Facebook page titled Atal Modi (Image- Facebook)

advertisement

India Todays fact-check team shot down the speculations flying high on social platforms apparently to praise the Modi government facing opposition fire for its 2016 order to buy 36 combat aircraft from Frances Dassault.

The fact-check found the so-called Jaguar add-ons to be a sheer propaganda.

According to the sources in the Indian Air Force, the IAF is already struggling to maintain its existing fleet of ageing Jaguars. Why would the air force be interested in getting more of these wondered a senior IAF official.

So where did the speculations of free Jaguars originate from?

The fact-check tracked them down to a French weekly magazine which quoted sources in the French government claiming a year ago that Paris intended to donate 31 Jaguar fighter jets to India.

Its a fact that India wants to replace its squadrons of fighter jets. As against the required 42, the IAF is left with just 31 squadrons of warplanes. With the first French Rafale multirole combat aircraft to arrive only by 2019, the IAF is in urgent need of spare parts, said a highly-placed official source.

Some 61 Jaguars are to be upgraded by the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) for the Indian navy and the air force, the IAF source told the fact-check team. Similarly for the three squadrons of Mirage-2000 fighter jets, genuine spare parts are not available.

The French retired their Jaguars in 2005 and replaced them with Dassault Rafael multirole fighters. The UK, Ecuador, Nigeria and Oman have also discontinued Jaguars.

Defence ministry sources told India Today that France has agreed to supply spare parts from its retired fleet of Jaguar fighter jets. They will be will be transported to India and we will only bear the freight charges, an official source explained.

From our investigation, it is clear that India is not getting Jaguar fighter jets from France but only their spare parts to keep our own Jaguars up in the air. Moreover, the freebie has nothing to do with the Rafale deal.

advertisement

Watch | Image of the day: 19 years of Kargil war victory