A short video clip of a person saying I am a Muslim first and then an Indian is doing the rounds on social media.

Several people, including politicians like BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra and BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya have posted this on Twitter and claimed that the man in the video is Congress leader Nasimuddin Siddiqui.

The man in the video can be heard saying in Hindi First we are Muslims, then we are Indians. If Islam comes in collision with any law, we will be with Islam, we are not ready to follow that constitution, we will not follow that law. We are not loyal to this country, we are the masters of this country. Loyalty is for dogs, we are the masters of this country.

advertisement

A scroll goes over the video saying subscribe Satya Sanatan. The logo of the Satya Sanatan YouTube channel is also visible at the top right corner of the screen. At the end of the video, a graphics plate reads, people who think Hindu and Muslims are brothers show them this video.

BJP IT cell head, Amit Malviya retweeted the post of the author, Tarak Fatah.

The archived version of the tweet is saved here

India Today Anti Fake News War room ( AFWA) found this to be a misleading post. The man seen in viral video is not Congress leader Nasimuddin Siddiqui but Samajwadi party leader from Uttar Pradesh, Maviya Ali. The video is two years old.

BJP leader and spokesperson Sambit Patra tweeted the same video claiming this to be of Congress leader Nasimuddin Siddiqui and tagged the video to Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi saying where are two brothers and sisters.

Then later he realised his mistake and clarified with another tweet saying that the person on the video is Samajwadi party leader Maviya Ali.

This similar post is viral on Twitter and Facebook.

Several Facebook users like Major Surendra Poonia,VSM and Hindus of India have posted the same viral video with a similar claim that the man on the video is Congress leader Nasimuddin Siddiqui.

With the help of keyword search, we found that the Samajwadi Party leader Maviya Ali in August 2017 had courted controversy by saying that I am a Muslim first and then an Indian.

This was widely reported by several mainstream media like News 18 , Jagran and India Today

Several people have also posted the longer version of the same video on YouTube in 2017.

Who is Maviya Ali:

Maviya Ali, is a former Congress MLA from Deoband constituency. In 2017 he contested the Assembly election on a Samajwadi party ticket and was defeated by the BJP candidate.

As per the website MyNeta.Info Maviya Ali has several criminal cases against him. In some of the cases, he was also convicted.

Maviya Ali’s photo is widely available on social media. Neither his face nor his voice resembles that of Nasimuddin Siddiqui. Before joining Congress, Nasimmudin Siddiqui was with BSP for a long time.

advertisement

We spoke to, Congress leader and former BSP minister from UP Nasimuddin Siddiqui about this viral video. Siddiqui refuted the viral claim calling it malicious. He has also sent a letter to UP police asking it to file an FIR against the people who are circulating this misinformation.

Siddiqui who is the member of Congress legislative council has named Tarek Fatah and Sambit Patra in his complaint to UP police. The letter can be seen here.

Satya Sanatan, whose logo can be seen in the viral video is a YouTube channel, which has many anti-muslim posts.