The nationwide ‘rail roko’ by farmers’ unions on October 18, affected the services of over 200 trains, mostly in Punjab and Haryana. The protesters are demanding the arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra over the Lakhimpur incident in which his son Ashish’s convoy allegedly ran over farmers.

On social media, several pictures are circulating as of Monday’s ‘rail roko’ protests. The pictures, going viral with the hashtag #___, show people holding flags sitting on tractors and squatting on railway tracks.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here here and here

advertisement

Using reverse image search, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) traced the origin of all three pictures and found that these are old images of similar protests held by farmers earlier this year and late last year.

Image one

The picture of protesters blocking a railway line on a tractor was published in “The New Indian Express” in October 2020 as a similar ‘rail roko’ by farmers. The picture was taken by news agency PTI on October 13, 2020, at Devi Dass Pura village in Ambala.

Image two

The image of a man in orange turban sitting on a track with a white-and-green flag in hand is also old and not related to the October 18 protest. This picture was also taken by PTI and published on several news websites in February this year. The picture was taken near a railway bridge at Shahpur in Ambala during a similar ‘rail roko’ protest by farmers.

Image three

The third image showing people sitting on railway tracks has been used multiple times by “The Indian Express” in February and March this year while reporting on a rail blockade called by Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. As per the caption, the photograph was taken on the tracks near Amritsar’s Jandiala station in early 2021.

The ‘rail roko’ on October 18 witnessed sparse response in most states. The protests were mainly centred on Punjab and Haryana, and some parts of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Commuters travelling through these states faced harassment as dozens of trains came to a halt.

However, it is confirmed that several old pictures of farmers’ protests have been passed off as Monday’s demonstrations.