Amid ongoing border tensions between India and China, a purported Chinese columnist Zhong Xin has claimed that the People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) has shot down an Indian Sukhoi Su-30 fighter jet in Tibet.

“Breaking News: Our Air force has shut down Indian fighter jet Sukhoi Su30 in Tibet,” reads the tweet that has been shared by several users on social media. The archived version can be seen here.

advertisement Breaking News: Our Air force has shutdown Indian fighter jet Sukhoi su30 in Tibet. — Zhong Xin (@ZhongXN) October 3, 2020

However, neither the Indian or Chinese governments nor any credible media outlet has issued a statement regarding such an incident. The Press Information Bureau (PIB) has called this claim fake and said no such incident has taken place.

Claim: A tweet claims that an IAF Sukhoi Su-30 fighter jet has been shot down by PLA Air Force in #Tibet.#PIBFactCheck: The claim is #FAKE. No such incident has taken place. pic.twitter.com/SFHUTYiOsD — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) October 4, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) did a detailed forensic analysis of this Twitter user called “Zhong Xin” who claims to be from China Grove in Texas, United States. However, we found that this person is most likely sitting in Pakistan and propelling fake news against India.

There are several red flags which indicate that this person is lying about his identity and location. Let us look into eight such points that expose him.

1. Funny English

As per the bio of the Twitter handle “@ZhongXN”, this person is a Chinese columnist who specialises in Chinese and Pakistani current affairs, but he has misspelt “current affairs” as “current affair” in the bio section.

In one of his tweets, he claims to be from China, but has misspelt the word “Chinese” as “Chines”. Even in the tweet on Sukhoi, he prefers shutting down the fighter jet instead of shooting them down!

According to the Twitter bio, this profile was opened on Friday, March 20 this year. He has made only 43 tweets till October 6.

2. Made in China?

The so-called columnist from China “Zhong Xin” follows six verified Twitter handles, mostly belonging to media organisations. It is strange that this person does not follow any person or organisation related to China, except “Ecns.cn”.

He does not even follow Chinese Premier Xi Jinping, the Chinese foreign ministry or Beijing’s mouthpiece “Global Times”.



3. Uses morphed picture of Indian Army chief

On August 25, this person shared a morphed picture former Indian Army chief General Dalbir Singh Suhag. He possibly misrecognised him as the present Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, since in the caption he addressed him as “Rawat”.

advertisement

The original picture of General Suhag can be seen in this “Firstpost” article.

4. Hiding behind a stolen profile picture

The display picture used by the Twitter handle “@ZhongXN” belongs to Feng Wang, a professor of sociology at the University of California, United States. When we reverse-searched the display picture, we found the same image of Professor Wang on an educational website.

When AFWA approached professor Feng Wang, he confirmed that this is his photo which was more than a decade old, calling it a fraud that he would report to Twitter. "At that time, I was working as the director of the Brookings-Tsinghua Center for Public Policy at Tsinghua University, Beijing", said Professor Wang.

5. Maximum tweets about Pakistan

The user claims to be living in Texas, but there is not a single tweet about the United States. His tweets are mostly about Pakistan or China.

The hashtags #pakistan and #imrankhanvoiceofpeace have been used the maximum times by this account, as per data obtained from “thevisualized.com".

advertisement

6. Most followers from Lahore, Karachi

As per the Twitter bio, this person lives in China Grove, Texas, US. But when we searched the Twitter handle on “Followerwonk” website, we found that the mapped location of most of his followers is from Pakistan and not the US. In Pakistan, most of his followers are from Lahore and Karachi.

This app uses the location field in the Twitter app to find the geographical location which might not always be the real location, but it is unlikely that location data of all the followers of this person would be false. This also suggests that the user might be from Pakistan.

7. Has been changing Twitter handles

Every Twitter account has a permanent ID. The Twitter handles can be changed multiple times but the ID remains the same.



We found the Twitter ID of this account using “Tweetbeaver” and searched the same on Google. The Twitter ID “1241027886594875393” revealed that this person had projected himself as “Hui Yin” and “Zhong Xin” in the past. At that time, he had 226 and 967 followers respectively.

advertisement

8. Tweeting at odd hours

foller.me” website to see at what time a person is most active. This website gives a rough idea about a person’s activity hours. But the data shown is in Universal Time Coordinated (UTC) system.



If we assume that the user actually lives in Texas, then he is most active between 3 am and 6 am, which is possible but unusual. However, if we convert his activity hours according to Pakistan time, it suggests that most of his tweets are made in the afternoon between 1 pm and 4 pm. We use “” website to see at what time a person is most active. This website gives a rough idea about a person’s activity hours. But the data shown is in Universal Time Coordinated (UTC) system.If we assume that the user actually lives in Texas, then he is most active between 3 am and 6 am, which is possible but unusual. However, if we convert his activity hours according to Pakistan time, it suggests that most of his tweets are made in the afternoon between 1 pm and 4 pm.

This also suggests that the person is possibly based in Pakistan and not in the US as he claims.

Update: We had approached Professor Feng Wang of The University of California whose photo has been used to create this fake identity. He responded after this story was published. The story has been updated with his version.