Several parts of Tamil Nadu, including the capital Chennai, have been experiencing intense rainfall and waterlogging over the past few days.

In fact, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of “extremely heavy rains” and “localised landslides” in the state over the next few days as well.

In this context, a video showing garbage and vehicles floating on an inundated street and people wading through them is circulating on social media with the claim that this is the present situation of Chennai.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This video was taken in Sadar Bazaar locality of New Delhi when the Capital went underwater due to heavy rainfall a couple of months back.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

We found several social media users pointing out that the video could be from Delhi and not Chennai. Upon closely analysing the clipping, we could hear people speaking in Hindi. A board of North Eastern Carrying Corporation Ltd. (NECC) can also be seen in the video.

With the help of keyword search on various social media platforms, we found the same video shared by netizens in early September 2021 as from Sadar Bazaar in New Delhi.

Well said our @srinivasiyc Sir..."Floating Market of India" at Sadar Bazar of Delhi...



But all credit should goes to @ArvindKejriwal ji...actually it was his dream...Will make Delhi like London... But it becomes Venice... @LambaAlka #KejriwalFailsDelhi pic.twitter.com/C8R68CByx4 — Dhruba Budhadev Choudhury (@dhrubachoudhur5) September 2, 2021

Taking a cue from the above, we searched on Google Maps and found an NECC branch on Azad Market Road in Sadar Bazaar. The same address is also provided on the NECC website.

We also found multiple videos shared by users in August and September this year showing the waterlogged condition of the same street.

A comparison between one such video and the video in question can be seen below. In this video, we can also see people trying to move a car with Delhi registration.

Some media organisations had also reported about vehicles floating on the streets of Sadar Bazaar due to continuous rains in August and September.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video is from New Delhi and not related to the ongoing downpour in Chennai.

Also read: Fact Check: Old video of anti-CAA protest in Kerala passed off as rally against Tripura violence

Also read: Fact Check: How ‘Sneha’ and ‘FAU-G’ became Sameer Wankhede on Twitter