Amid worldwide travel restrictions due to coronavirus, a message on social media is going viral with the claim that Air India is operating evacuation flights from Delhi and Mumbai for Indians stuck in London.

The viral message, which has been shared and forwarded several times on Facebook and WhatsApp, claims the flights are being scheduled for April 1, 2 and 3 between Delhi and London, and for April 3 between Mumbai and London.

advertisement

Facebook users such as Kumar Kamal Tumuluru and Daksha Raval Lath posted the viral message which reads, If anyone knows anyone from India who is stuck in London, Air India is operating evacuation flights from DEL & BOM. They will need to contact the INDIAN High commission in London to arrange seats. These are on the 1st 2nd 3rd of April DEL LHR DEL. Apr 3rd BOM LHR BOM.

These posts are archived here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The Indian High Commission to the United Kingdom has called the viral message fake.

The official Twitter handle of the Indian High Commissioner to the UK, Ruchi Ghanashyam, has appealed stranded Indians not to believe in this rumour. Such a misleading message is being spread. Please do not share it with others. At this difficult time please refrain from spreading rumours. Stay connected with us for updates, the office of Indian High Commission to UK tweeted on March 29, 2020.

Such a misleading message is being spread. Please do not share it with others. At this difficult time please refrain from spreading rumours. Stay connected with us for updates. @RuchiGhanashyam @CGI_Bghm @IndiaInScotland pic.twitter.com/ElzOF9zWWP India in the UK (@HCI_London) March 29, 2020

The UK recently confirmedthat Indian students or professionals on visas that have expired or are expiring would be given extension at least till May 31.

There are reports that Air India is planning to send German nationals stuck in Indian cities back home.

But there is no such confirmation that Air India would be sending evacuation flights to bring back stranded Indians from the UK.