The 74th Independence Day celebrations in India this year remained a low-key affair due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, on social media, netizens including celebrities and political leaders wished each other and paid tribute to the frontline Covid warriors in the country.

Amidst this, a screenshot of an Independence Day message with an Egyptian national flag purportedly posted on the Facebook page of Ajit Doval, the National Security Advisor (NSA) to the Prime Minister of India, is being circulated on social media. Enraged netizens criticised the NSA for using the Egyptian national flag instead of Indian Tricolour in his Independence Day message.

advertisement

The caption to one such post along with the screenshot reads, "This is Indian National Security Advisor and Ex RAW Agent, Mr Ajit Kumar Doval. He is wishing Happy Independence Day to Egypt today. Explains why Indian forces are the worst."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the Independence Day message with the Egyptian flag was uploaded by a fan page in the name of Ajit Doval. Doval does not have an official social media handle.

In the viral screenshot, the NSA has purportedly wished "HAPPY INDEPENDENCE DAY TO ALL OF US!!". This text is followed by the emoji of three Egyptian national flags.

Similar posts have also gone viral on Facebook.

The archived versions of the post can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

While searching on Facebook with the keyword 'Ajit Doval', we couldn't find a verified page in the name of PM's security advisor Ajit Kumar Doval.

However, we found several fan pages in the name of the NSA.

On further search, we found the actual page that posted the Independence Day message with the Egyptian national flag.

The post in question was uploaded by this page in the name of the NSA on August 15, 2020. Till the time of filing this copy, the post had received over 9,000 interactions.

The page named after Ajit Doval was created on July 16, 2019, and has over 9.6 lakh followers. The 'about' section of the page which is written in Hindi translates to: "This is the fan page of the super spy".

Also, according to the information available on this Facebook page, its ownership belongs to Agyey Solutions LLP, a business solutions company based in Pune.

Ajit Kumar Doval is the National Security Advisor (NSA) to the Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi since 2014. He is also the former Intelligence Bureau (IB) Director, often referred to as 'the spymaster'. The retired IPS officer has played a major supervisory role in India's 2016 surgical strike and 2019 Balakot airstrikes across the border in Pakistan, as well as the Doklam stand-off.

advertisement

The PM's Office has also confirmed that the NSA does not have an official social media handle.

Hence, the claim that Ajit Kumar Doval, the National Security Advisor (NSA) to the Prime Minister of India used the emoji of an Egyptian flag in his Independence Day message to Indians is false. The message was posted by a fan page in the name of the NSA. Ajit Kumar Doval does not have an official account on any of the social media platforms.