A photo of an ‘ABP’ news clip is being widely shared on social media claiming that an anti-Islamist leader was met with an accident minutes after he burnt the Quran. This post claims it was a natural accident while describing it as a punishment given by Allah for burning the Quran. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Claim: An anti-Islamist leader met with an accident minutes after he burnt the Quran. Fact: Lars Thorsen, leader of the anti-Islam group SIAN, burnt the Quran outside a Mosque in Oslo on 03 July 2022. Outraged by this act by Lars Thorsen and other SIAN protestors, two women chased Lars Thorsen’s car with their Mercedes car and deliberately rammed away his vehicle onto a roof causing the overturning of the vehicle. It was not a natural accident. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.

On searching for the details of this accident using relevant keywords on the internet, we found the ‘ABP’ news article that reported the accident of a Norwegian anti-Islamist leader who burnt Islam’s holy book Quran. ‘ABP’ reported it as a deliberate attack by two people avenging the burning of their religious books. When we searched for further details of the accident, we found the complete details in an article published by the ‘Daily Mail’ news website on 05 July 2022. The ‘Daily Mail’ reported that anti-Islamist leader Lars Thorsen’s car was rammed off onto its roof by two women following a chase in Oslo, Norway.

Lars Thorsen, leader of the anti-Islam group ‘Stop the Islamisation of Norway’ (Sian), burnt the Quran outside a Mosque in Oslo on 03 July 2022. Outraged by this act by Lars Thorsen and other SIAN protestors, two women reportedly chased Lars Thorsen’s SUV with their Mercedes car and deliberately rammed off his vehicle onto a roof, causing the overturning of the vehicle.

According to the reports, the five passengers in the SUV were slightly injured. The Norwegian police have arrested two women, the driver, and her passenger, on the charges of deliberately ramming the SUV of Lars Thorsen. Norway’s domestic intelligence service has described the attack as “an act of Islamist terrorism”. The live footage of the accident can be seen here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the accident of Norwegian anti-Islamist leader Lars Thorsen’s car was intentional and was not a natural accident.

To sum it up, a deliberate attack on a Norwegian anti-Islamist’s car for burning Quran books was shared as a natural accident.