A video clip of a speech by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau wishing people on Eid al-Fitr and speaking about his government's resolution to fight against Islamophobia has gone viral on social media.

Facebook user "Iqbal Ahmed" posted the video on May 23, just two days before Eid, giving the impression that it was Trudeau's message for Eid this year. People in the comment section have also believed the same as the message coincides with festivities.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the speech to be from last year's Eid. In this year's speech, Trudeau congratulated Muslim Canadians for their charity work despite the challenges of Covid-19. But he has not spoken about Islamophobia.

The 57-second video has a Tiktok logo over it. Till the filing of this story, the video was viewed almost 3.3 lakh times and shared over 16,000 times.

We found that on June 4, 2019, the viral video was uploaded on Trudeau's Facebook page. This was reported by several Pakistani news channels on the same day. The news clip uploaded by one such channel on YouTube can be seen here.

Several news websites had reported about Trudeau's comments on Islamophobia last year. This year's Eid al-Fitr message by the Canadian PM was uploaded on his Facebook page on May 24.

WATCH VIDEO HERE

"Today across the country and around the world, Muslims are celebrating Eid al-Fitr and marking the end of Ramadan. To all the Muslim Canadians who are carrying out traditions at home and getting together online, I'm wishing you the very best. Eid Mubarak", Trudeau's official Twitter handle posted on May 24.

Today across the country and around the world, Muslims are celebrating Eid al-Fitr and marking the end of Ramadan. To all the Muslim Canadians who are carrying out traditions at home and getting together online, I’m wishing you the very best. Eid Mubarak! https://t.co/wdg90Tokr8 pic.twitter.com/gREDMLFfec— Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) May 23, 2020

Hence, a year-old speech of Trudeau has been shared massively on Facebook on the eve of this year's Eid al-Fitr.