A video is doing rounds on the internet in which a Burqa-clad woman is breaking Ganpati idols in the shop. Further, social media users are sharing the claim that this video is from Kerala. Meanwhile, a Facebook user named Apurva Rastogi, shared the video with the caption which can be nearly translated into English, “watch this video from Kerala and forward it as much as you can….if u keep quiet today we will be at a loss…because after 6 months there will be no use to forward it…wiggle fingers and move on now.”

(केरल के इस विडियो को देखें और इसे जितना हो सके उतना फॉरवर्ड करें …. अगर आप यू आज चुप रहते हैं तो हमें नुकसान होगा … क्योंकि 6 महीने के बाद इसे आगे बढ़ाने का कोई फायदा नहीं होगा … उँगलियाँ घुमाएँ और इसे आगे बढ़ाएँ अभी)

Similarly, many other users have shared this video with the similar claim.

Fact Check

Using InVID tool and reverse image search on different frames of the video, we got a many articles related to this incident. We found that this incident is of Bahrain, not of Kerala. And, the incident occurred in August 2020.

The viral video shows a burqa-clad woman in a supermarket in Bahrain slamming Ganpati idols, kept on display ahead of the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival, on the floor and shattering them into pieces.

Furthermore, we also got a tweet from the official account of the Ministry of Interior of the Kingdom of Bahrain on August 16. 2020. In the tweet, it was stated that “Capital Police took legal steps against a woman, 54, for damaging a shop in Juffair and defaming a sect and its rituals, in order to refer her to the Public Prosecution.”

Capital Police took legal steps against a woman, 54, for damaging a shop in Juffair and defaming a sect and its rituals, in order to refer her to the Public Prosecution. — Ministry of Interior (@moi_bahrain) August 16, 2020

Also Read: Economist Steve Hanke shared Pakistani video as Sri Lankan Crisis- Read the fact check

Conclusion

Therefore, the viral video is old and it is of Bahrain not of Kerala. Hence, social media users are sharing the video with the misleading claim.