A video is going viral on social media sites. By sharing this video, users are claiming that “Love Jihadi” is luring girls into their trap by intimidating them.

A user named Yogi Yogesh Agarwal (Dharmsena) captioned, “Look at this! How love jihadis lure Hindu girls into their trap by intimidating them. If anyone threatens any child in this way, then there is no need to be afraid, immediately inform your family members and file a report to the police, then these people will not be able to succeed in their purpose.” and tweeted a video.

In this video, it can be seen that a man with a knife in his hand is scarifying the girl and pressuring her for marriage, while the girl is seen hiding behind her friend.

https://twitter.com/yogeshDharmSena/status/1552121377016057856

At the same time, a user named Banty Rajput posted the same video on Facebook with the exact same caption.

Similarly, the same video has been posted on other social media sites including Twitter and Facebook with a similar claim.

Fact Check:

Using the InVid tool, a reverse image search of some key frames of the viral video found the same video by the DFRAC team, from the Twitter handle of Nai Duniya, one of the leading newspapers in Madhya Pradesh, with the caption, “Indore Crime News: इंदौर में गर्दन उड़ाने की धमकी देकर शादी का दबाव बना रहा था सिरफिरा प्रेमी” (A girl was pressurized for marriage by a mad lover who was threatening with a knife to cut her neck in Indore, MP.) has been tweeted a video.

Nayi Duniya has also published a report on July 26, 2022 which states that according to MIGTI Ajay Verma The name of the intimidator with the knife is Piyush alias Shanu son Bharat Kachhawa resident of LIG Colony. He is friends with a girl for three years and he was pressurizing her to get married because the girl had refused to marry Shanu, who runs a noodles shop. The girl refused to report to the police due to fear, although the police arrested Shanu and sent him to jail for possessing illegal weapons.

Meanwhile, News18 has also covered it under the headline, ,“Indore: शादी के लिए चाक़ू की नोक पर युवती को धमकाया, सनकी आशिक गिरफ्तार” (Indore: Girl threatened at knife-point for marriage, and lover arrested.)

Conclusion:

This fact check of DFRAC makes it clear that there is no communal angle in the viral video, hence the sharing of the video by users as “love jihadi” is a misleading claim.

Claim: How love jihadis trap Hindu girls by intimidating them

Claimant: Yogi Yogesh Agarwal and other social media users

Fact Check: Misleading