The Narendra Modi government on Monday decided to do away with Article 370 and Article 35A and bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories. In the run-up to this historic decision, heavy security force was mobilised in the state to thwart any disturbance.



Social media is ripe with rumours over the developments. One such Facebook post in Bengali claims that Pakistani soldiers, waving white flags, sought truce with Indian jawans. The photo, along with the post, shows an Indian soldier watching over as some Pakistani forces stand with a white flag in hand. The post goes on to praise Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home minister Amit Shah.

advertisement

The Claim

On August 4, Facebook user Rajdeep Roy posted the photo along with the claim in Bengali that translates to, "Modi+Mota bhai therapy. And the result of surgery by our brave forces. Pakistani soldiers are begging for peace with white flag in hand. Be proud of our forces and say Jai Jawan."

Many Facebook users, believing the claim, commented "Jai Hind" and "Indian Army Zindabad" below the post. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Other Facebook users like "Jamuria Youth Morcha Grameen 1" () and "Anup Roy" too shared the same photo with the same claim.

The Truth

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that no such truce was declared by the Pakistani Army and the photo is from last month when Indian soldiers handed over the coffin of a seven-year-old boy who was swept away in a river from Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir.

AFWA did a reverse search of the photo and found that it is from July 11. The picture was posted on social media by journalist Aditya Raj Kaul on the same day when the body of the minor was fished out of Kishanganga river and handed over to the Pakistani army.

Abid, a resident of Minimarg Astore area of PoK's Gilgit-Baltistan region, was on his way to school when he was swept away by the tide. The river carried his body to Achoora Sindiyal region of J&K's Gurez Valley, where some locals fished it out.

The child was identified with the help of a video released by his distraught family on social media from the other side of the Line of Control. The Indian Army decided to hand over the body in a casket to the Pakistani army.

Details regarding the news can be read in this The Times of India article. The same photo can be seen in this article by Free Press Kashmir as well.

It was during this hand-over procedure that the photo which is now going viral with the false claim was clicked.