Amid reports of Taliban fighters forcibly marrying girls, sometimes as young as 12, in their areas of dominance, a tweet attributed to Al Jazeera is circulating on social media.

“Taliban started abducting minor girls from their home. The parents who are refusing to give their daughters to Taliban are being killed by Taliban Fighters,” reads the apparent tweet that also has a disturbing picture of a bleeding girl surrounded by Islamist fighters.

advertisement

The caption along with the purported screenshot says, “Hindus will still vote for free electricity. We are same people that cheated our own to British and mughals.”

The archived version can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral screenshot is morphed, and till the time of filing this story, no such tweet was posted from any Twitter handle of Al Jazeera. The picture used in the tweet is from 2016 and shows a stage act put up by some Afghan artists. It is, however, true that several incidents of young Afghan girls being kidnapped and forcibly married by the Taliban have been reported recently.

AFWA probe

The first major clue that raised doubts regarding the authenticity of the tweet was the name of the handle where “Al Jazeera” has been misspelt as “Al Jajeera”.

While the display name is “Al Jajeera English”, the Twitter handle is “@AJENews”. In reality, the Twitter handle of “Al Jazeera English” is “@AJEnglish”, while “@AJENews” is the handle of “Al Jazeera Breaking News”.

We then conducted a keyword search and found that neither “Al Jazeera English” nor “Al Jazeera Breaking News” posted any such tweet till the time of filing this story.

Image lifted from 2016 play

Reverse-searching the image used in the viral tweet, we found it in a 2016 report published by the “Los Angeles Times”.

Here, the image was posted with the caption, “Afghan artists reenact the mob killing of Farkhunda Malikzada, 27, an Afghan woman who was beaten to death on March 19, 2015, after being falsely accused of burning a copy of the Koran in Kabul.” The picture was taken by Associated Press photographer Rahmat Gul.

We found the viral image and several other images from the same event in AP archives.

The blood-curdling truth

As the Taliban was capturing key provinces in Afghanistan, there were reports of its fighters forcibly kidnapping and marrying teenage girls.

Some Afghan students residing in Chandigarh had also confirmed the same to India Today.

Reportedly, the Taliban had asked for a list of girls above 15 and widows under 45 to be married to their fighters.

advertisement

However, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen dismissed the claims as baseless and a “poisonous propaganda”.

Therefore, it is clear that though the situation for women is extremely miserable in Afghanistan under Taliban rule, the Al Jazeera tweet on abducton of minor girls is morphed.