Business is slowing down globally and there are predictions of further damage to the world economy on account of COVID-19. Amid panic-buying of essential commodities in different countries, a video of some people vandalising and breaking into a store is doing the rounds on social media.

The caption along with the 45-second video says, "Every economic crisis is paid for the same population segment, the working class! Riots in London." It was reportedly shot outside a Poundland store in London.

advertisement Every economic crisis is paid for the same population segment, the working class! Riots in London pic.twitter.com/vYytVbsfxC Luis Villanueva (@luisvipe) March 19, 2020

The video is circulating on WhatsApp as well linking it to coronavirus. The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that it is an old video from the 2011 London riots.

We ran a Google search to find out if any riot is taking place in London after the novel coronavirus outbreak. We found a few incidents of panic-buying in some stores but in low intensity.

On March 19, "The Telegraph" reported that a scuffle broke out at a London supermarket and "Food retailers have warned riots and civil disobedience could break out within weeks if production is unable to keep up with demand".

Reports are coming in that fearing a lockdown, people all over the world have indeed started stockpiling rations. Here is a report by "The New York Times" on this.

There are also reports of people fighting over toilet paper.

As scary as it may sound but "NPR" on March 20 reported that people are even stocking up guns and ammunition. "ABC News" reports, "Gun sales on the rise as coronavirus concerns spread".

But the said video is not a recent one. Upon investigation, we found it is from the 2011 London riots which the global media had covered extensively. Here is a BBC report on the violence.

We found another YouTube video of the riots, uploaded on August 8, 2011. This was recorded at Peckham.

The London riots were a series of riots that took place from August 6-11, 2011. It started from Tottenham, but later spread to Brixton, Enfield, Peckham, Ealing and other areas.

Therefore, it can be said that the video is almost nine years old and has nothing to do with the COVID-19 outbreak.

AFWA had earlier debunked a nine-year-old video from Germany circulating on social media relating it to the novel coronavirus outbreak.