Fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi's recent appearance in London had set the social media ball rolling. Many on Facebook shared a post involving the PNB scam accused businessman, Congress president Rahul Gandhi, and former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan.

A reporter of the British newspaper The Telegraph on Saturday spotted Nirav walking on a street in London's West End, sporting a handlebar moustache.

advertisement

The Facebook post claims that Rajan had warned Rahul about the scam involving Nirav but he was asked to remain silent.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this claim to be false.

Several Facebook users such as Jayaram Ramaswamy, Acharya Sannjiv Sharma, Sahil Mittal and JaiRam Tiwari posted an image of Rajan along with a quote attributing him. The quote reads, "I had warned Rahul Gandhi and P Chidambaram about frauds of Nirav Modi. But they forced me to remain quiet and kept approving the loans till May 2014. Why am I being blamed for the PNB scam now?"



Using reverse search or by searching with the keywords "Raghuram Rajan + Rahul Gandhi + Nirav Modi", we could not find any credible report validating the claim. Rather, we came across a news article by News 18 published on March 13, 2018, where Rajan had hit out at social media for a "fake quote". "Social media has a habit of attributing complete rubbish to me," Rajan said.



The viral post also carries a spelling error - "Ex-governer". This particular post was in circulation on social media last year as well.



Fact Check website Boomlive had reported about this fake news last year.

Also Read | Fact Check: Wife divorced husband for faking as deaf and dumb is a fictitious story

Also Read | Fact Check: Sambit Patra's photo with chowkidar chor hai poster is fake

Also Read | Fact Check: No, this is not IAF pilot Abhinandan's uniform at Pakistan museum

Also Read | Fact Check: No, this London tea shop didn't use Abhinandan's image on its signboard

Also Read | This video showing celebration on the return of Abhinandan is fake