Amid the ongoing agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act across the country, a gory video of police beating up protesters is circulating on social media. It is being claimed that the video is from Assam where the National Register of Citizens (NRC) has been implemented.

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is from Dhaka, Bangladesh, and is around seven years old.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Among others, Facebook user 'Syed Samad' posted the video with the caption in Hindi that roughly translates: "NRC has been implemented in Assam, people are being picked up from their houses. Media will not show you thisit's now our responsibility to share this video maximum number of times."

The viral video is disturbing as it shows policemen brutally thrashing people, bodies lying in pools of blood and people running for safety.

To verify the claim being spread on social media, the AFWA team observed it closely and found 'RAB' written on the uniforms of the policemen.

We ran a Google search and found that RAB or Rapid Action Battalion is an anti-crime and anti-terrorism unit of the Bangladesh Police.

We took a screengrab from the video and ran a reverse search to find out that the video is actually from Dhaka, Bangladesh. We found a similar video with the caption: "Police raid at Hefazat-e-Islam rally".

At 7 minutes 10 seconds of this video, one can see the body of a man lying on the stairs. The same image is also visible in the viral video.

We ran a search on internet with the keywords -- "Police raid at Hefazat-e-Islam rally" -- and found many media reports.

According to these reports, on May 6, 2013, Dhaka witnessed a clash between protesters and police over the blasphemy law. The protest was organised by the group Hefazat-e Islam, demanding an anti-blasphemy law with provision for the death penalty.

Hence, it is established that the viral video is from Dhaka and is around seven years old.