Kanhaiya Lal, a tailor from Udaipur in Rajasthan was brutally murdered on June 28 by two Muslim men for purportedly sharing a post on social media supporting Nupur Sharma.

Following the arrest of the two men, a claim has gone viral on social media praising Sudhir Chaudhary, the SP of Rajsamand.

Many shared a photo of Chaudhary and stated: “SP Rajasmand - Mr Sudhir Chaudhary has shown great speed by arresting the two accused of the cold-blooded murder of Kanhaiya Lal. He himself rode on a bike and caught the two before they could escape the city. Congratulations super cop!”

advertisement

AFWA’s investigation revealed that the arrest was made in Bhim, a small town in the Rajsamand district, around 158 km from Udaipur. At the time of the arrest, the SP of Rajsamand was present at the district headquarters located around 100 km from Bhim.

AFWA Probe

While investigating the claim, we first looked for details regarding the arrest of the two men. Per India Today’s report, the two accused in this case — Gaus Mohammed and Riyaz Ahmed — were caught in Rajsamand district's Bhim area.

As per Google Maps, Bhim is a small town located around 98 km north of the district headquarters in Rajsamand and around 157 km north of Udaipur.

We found a video of the arrest on the YouTube channel of the Hindustan Times. In this video, we could see three police vehicles and a bike. A man was seen riding this bike alongside the police cars.

To confirm the authenticity of this video and the identity of the person on the bike, we first got in touch with Devi Singh, the Aaj Tak correspondent in Rajsamand. Singh confirmed that this video captured the arrest in question.

We then contacted Gajendra Singh, the officer in charge of the Bhim police station.

“Following the SP’s order, we had set up check posts at strategic locations and managed to catch the duo. Our SP was monitoring the situation from the district headquarters. The person who can be seen riding a bike is a police informer,” Singh told India Today.

Finally, we got in touch with Sudhir Chaudhury, the man whose photo has been making the rounds on social media. “No, I was not present in Bhim at the time of the arrest. My team was there. We had set up teams at different locations and I was monitoring the entire operation,” Chaudhury told India Today. Hence, we concluded that the claim is misleading.