Maharashtra is gearing up for assembly elections later this year. With campaigning on in full swing in the state, social media too is abuzz with the probable election schedule.

However, many social media users went a step ahead and claimed that the Election Commission of India (ECI) has already declared the dates. They even posted the "schedule" of the Maharashtra assembly election.

advertisement

Facebook user Keshav Taware said, "Maharashtra assembly elections announced. 20-September 2019 code apply. 27-September 2019 filling the form. 15-October 2019 voting. 19-October 2019 count."

READ THIS POST HERE

The archived version of the post can be seen here. A similar claim has been made by many users on Facebook and Twitter.

The truth

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the dates for the upcoming assembly election in Maharashtra have not yet been declared. The voting and counting dates going viral on social media are from the 2014 assembly elections.

AFWA did not find any date being declared on the ECI website or even on the Twitter handle of the poll body spokesperson. There are a few reports saying that the dates will be declared soon which can be read here.

Maharashtra has 288 assembly seats and elections here are likely to be held along with Haryana. For the 2014 assembly election, the notification was out on September 20, and the Model Code of Conduct came into force from that day.

The last date of nomination was September 27 and voting took place on October 15. Counting of votes was done on October 19. This can be checked on the ECI website.

AFWA also spoke to the ECI spokesperson who said, "Dates for assembly election in Maharashtra and Haryana have not been declared yet. Sufficient time would be given to the media to come to the commission office when the press conference will be held about it."

The ECI always declares election dates in a press conference and the Model Code of Conduct is implemented in that particular jurisdiction from immediate effect.