The ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony of the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya is scheduled on August 5. Several prominent figures, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will be part of the event. Amid this, some news websites have claimed that Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan has said he will take ‘jal samadhi’ in the Saryu river, or in other words, sacrifice his life, if not invited to the ceremony.

advertisement

Hindi news website “News Track” published an article, according to which Azam Khan has said he is a devotee of Lord Ram and he had played a significant role in the Ram temple movement. This article was tweeted by BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, among others. “Swarajya” had also published an article with the same information. All of them later corrected the mistake.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the articles to be misleading. The above statement was not given by SP’s Azam Khan but a namesake, who is the president of ‘Sri Ram Mandir Nirman Muslim Kar Sewak Manch’ and claims to be a Ram devotee.

The fake news has been circulated widely on Facebook and Twitter.

When pointed out by netizens, “Swarajya” and “News Track” corrected their articles with the right information. Sambit Patra too clarified that the “News Track” article he had shared was faulty.

AFWA investigation

We found multiple news reports regarding the statement given by Azam Khan of Muslim Kar Sewak Manch on July 25 in Ayodhya.

Claiming to be a ‘Ram bhakt’, Azam Khan had said Lord Ram cannot be restricted to any religion or caste and the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the Ram temple will not be complete without him. He had said he will sacrifice his life in Saryu river if not invited to the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony.

A “Hindustan Times” report said the Ram temple trust has invited all prominent figures associated with the movement and all chief ministers for the ceremony.

On the other hand, SP’s Azam Khan, along with his son and wife, has been in jail for the last five months in relation to various cases such as land grabbing, encroachment and others lodged against them by the Yogi Adityanath government.

After the Supreme Court verdict on Ram temple last year, the Rampur MP had said that the apex court’s decision should be respected by all.

Hence, the claim saying that SP leader Azam Khan had threatened to sacrifice his life if not invited to the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is false. The statement was given by a different Azam Khan.