A screenshot, apparently of a report by “The Indian Express”, is circulating on social media, where according to the headline, a man was caught urinating on Mughal emperor Aurangzeb’s grave, but a court in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad ruled that it was not a crime.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the screenshot is morphed. “The Indian Express” has not published any such report. Also, no such court order has been reported from Aurangabad.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

A court saying it is not a crime to urinate on Aurangzeb’s grave would have definitely made headlines. However, we could not find any such report either by “The Indian Express” or any other media house.

AFWA then checked with India Today’s Aurangabad bureau, who confirmed that no such incident was recently reported from the district where the Mughal emperor’s tomb is located.

A closer look at the viral screenshot helped identify several deviations from “The Indian Express” style sheet. Also, unlike credible media reports, no date of publication is mentioned in the screenshot.

We further contacted Nandagopal Rajan, Editor (New Media) at The Indian Express, who confirmed that the screenshot is fake, and they have not published any such report. “It is a bad photoshop job that very clearly appears to be fake,” he said.

Another journalist with “The Indian Express” said the dateline seen in the screenshot is not the style followed by them, and such stories, even if published, would never come under the category “Elections” as seen in the screenshot.

We then did a reverse search of the image of Aurangzeb’s tomb seen in the screenshot and found that the same picture was used by several websites, including “The Telegraph”, which credited it to “Wikimedia Commons”.

Hence, it is clear that the viral screenshot is fake. Neither is the incident true nor has “The Indian Express” published any such article.

READ | Fact Check: This is not the picture of Bhagat Singh’s funeral. Know the story of his cremation

READ | Fact Check: This is not Shia leader Wasim Rizvi being thrashed for seeking removal of Quranic verses