A message claiming that the Supreme Court has ordered 'India' to be called 'Bharat' in all languages from June 15, 2020, is false.

The misleading claim is viral in the backdrop of the Supreme Court hearing a petition seeking to drop the name "India" from Article 1 of the Indian constitution which defines the name and territory of the country. The article states that, "India, that is Bharat, shall be a union of states and the territory."

"From June 15, Bharat's name will remain only Bharat in every language: (Supreme Court). Congratulations to the countrymen," Facebook posts in Hindi say.



Click here to view an archive.

(In Hindi - 15 जून से भारत का नाम हर भाषा मे सिर्फ भारत रहेगा (सुप्रीम कोर्ट) देशवासियों को बधाई)

Click here to view an archive.

On searching with the same caption, we found that it was viral with the false claim.









Also Read: Fake Zee News Graphic Claims Total Lockdown From June 15

FACT-CHECK

We searched for news reports on the verdict being mentioned and found that a plea was filed before the Supreme Court of India by a petitioner who had sought a direction to amend the Constitution and replace the word 'India' with 'Bharat' or 'Hindustan'.

However, the apex court had not given a verdict in favour of renaming the country, nor did it state that from June 15, 2020, the name of the country would be called 'Bharat' in all languages.

In fact, the Supreme Court disposed of the petition filed for changing the name of India to Bharat, while allowing it to be treated as a representation before the concerned Union ministries.





The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde stated that the court cannot pass any directions to amend the Constitution for such name change. "We cannot do that. India is already called Bharat in the Constitution", CJI SA Bobde said, referring to Article 1 of the Constitution reported Live Law.

Article 1 of the Indian Constitution says that, "India, that is Bharat, shall be a union of states and the territory," and the petitioner had approached the court to replace the word 'India'.

BOOM read the order pronounced by the court, which states, "The present petition is directed to be treated as a representation and may be considered by the appropriate Ministries. The writ petition is disposed of accordingly."

We found no mention in the order that states India would be referred to as 'Bharat' in all languages from June 15, 2020.





Click here to view.

That would mean, the issue stays alive and if the Centre does not act or rejects the representation, the petitioner could move to the Supreme Court again.