Spread the truth:

A few days earlier, a green building picture was recently shared on Facebook by various users claiming that the building in the above picture is the Congress office at Wayanad, Kerala.

The post claimed “यह केरल के वायनाड में कांग्रेस पार्टी का कार्यालय अब आप अंदाजा लगाइए कांग्रेस ने अपने घोषणा पत्र में दरियादिली क्यों दिखा”

Translation- “This is the office of the Congress party in Wayanad; now you can guess why Congress was so generous in its manifesto.”

Facebook, Twitter saw various tweets and posts that represent the same. People across India reposted the picture with same context without checking the accuracy of the picture.

Facebook Twitter नही नहीं पाकिस्तान🇵🇰 नहीं है यह…ऐसा तो सोचना भी महापाप है जी ।

यह तो वायनाड का कांग्रेस कार्यालय है, जहाँ से #राहुल_गांधी सांसद हैं…. इसे देखकर ही कम से कम सेक्युलिरिज्म का चोला ओढ़े हिन्दुओं को अक़्ल आ जानी चाहिए…{हालांकि इसकी उम्मीद कम ही है} 🙄😨😳🧐😱 pic.twitter.com/6Z9k3bDCNx — दिनेश जिन्दल (@DineshJ29783391) April 15, 2021 However, the same picture was circulated during the Lok Sabha Elections after Congress Leader Rahul Gandhi filed his nomination from Wayanad but it is now again being circulated in the same context. Truth The above pictures shared are from the building of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and not the Congress office in Wayanad.

In the above picture, the symbol on the top left corner is the ladder. It is the party symbol of the Indian Union Muslim League office in Kerala. Below is the picture of the President of the Kerala state committee of the Indian Union Muslim League. It is the picture of Syed Muhammedali Shihab Thangal. Thangal was the party President of the IUML until he died in 2009.

The other clue through which we cleared a few doubts was the text written on the top right corner in Malayalam. The word is written in Malayalam and when we translated it into English, it appears “Iqbal Nagar League House”. Even the banner which is in the center was linked to the Pakistani Flag and that the Congress Party is sympathetic towards Pakistan. However, the crescent and the star that is shown in the above picture is not the Pakistani Flag. We double-checked the Pakistani Flag wherein the star is represented in the middle of the crescent and not on the top of the crescent, which is shown in the above picture. It may be kept in notice that the IUML and the Congress party were in a pre-poll alliance in Kerala for the Lok Sabha election.

Related