Relief operations are underway in Telangana after unprecedented rainfall over the last two days resulted in flooding of low-lying areas of the state, including in the capital Hyderabad. Several deaths and widespread damages were also reported.

Amid this, a video of a flooded airport is viral on social media with the claim that it is a scene from Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA). The caption says, “Hyderabad RGIA AIRPORT Shamshabad”.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. This is an old video from the international airport of Mexico City and is not related to Hyderabad.

The archived versions of some of the posts can be seen here, here a nd here.

AFWA probe

Using InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found that the video is from Aeropuerto Internacional Benito Juárez Ciudad de México (AICM), the international airport of Mexico City. Also, the video is at least three years old.

The same video was uploaded on August 31, 2017, by the verified Twitter handles of some Mexican media houses. The caption in Spanish translates to, “AICM has suspended operations because of the rains. This is what some track areas look like”.

We also found a tweet by the official Twitter handle of the Mexican airport confirming that it had suspended operations on August 31, 2017, due to heavy rains.

In fact, several Spanish media reports of the day carried either the same video or its screen grabs.

RGIA clarifies

The official Twitter handle of Hyderabad airport also confirmed that the viral video is not related to RGIA and operations are normal at the airport.

“It has been noticed many fake videos of water logging at RGIA are in circulation. Please be informed that operations at your airport are normal. Your airport is #SafeToFly and you can reach out to our Information Desk at any given time or text us on our social media platforms for assistance,” the official statement said.

AFWA also reached out to the RGIA spokesperson who said, “Operations at Hyderabad airport are normal. Due to Covid-19 regulations, we are handling only around 150-200 aircraft every day. Flights redirected due to bad weather have also returned and the airport is safe to operate.”

advertisement

RGIA used to handle around 500 flights in pre-Covid days.

The same viral video was shared over the years as visuals from other cities such as Mumbai and Bengaluru, and was fact-checked by several fact-checkers.

Hence, it is clear that the video showing a flooded airport is not from Hyderabad but Mexico and is at least three years old.