In wake of the recent clashes reported in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur, a claim is going viral on social media that the Indian National Flag at Jalori gate was replaced by an Islamic Flag by some Muslim youth on Eid-ul-Fitr on 3rd May, 2022.

The claim has been shared on Twitter by user @hgenocidewatch which has garnered 2,21,200 views along with 154 likes and 81 retweets. The video is being shared along with the caption ‘Islamic goons replace Indian national flag with Islamic flag at #Jodhpur’. The page @hgenocide on Twitter has shared communally inciting posts in the past.

Islamic goons replace Indian national flag with Islamic flag at #Jodhpur



pic.twitter.com/LTTj3ksBi4 — Hindu Genocide Watch (@hgenocidewatch) May 3, 2022

Newschecker found similar claims with different captions on Twitter.

#Jodhpur



Those who hoists Islamic Flag after Removed And Indian National Flag At Jalori Gate Circle #Jodhpur



Let's see what @ashokgehlot51 will use #bulldozer or will



Give #iphone #stitching_Machine or #LakhsOfRupee — Mukesh Purohit (@purohitmukesh85) May 3, 2022

https://twitter.com/Hindustan2369/status/1521424631911297024?s=20&t=rCvJlupaSSKlMf9crjw1Dg

Communal clashes in Jodhpur

Communal tensions gripped Jodhpur, Rajasthan hours before Eid on Tuesday, prompting the authorities to suspend mobile internet services and impose a curfew in 10 police stations areas of the city. The situation heated up past midnight over putting Islamic flags on the Jalori gate circle which led to stone pelting which had been brought down by heavy police intervention. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, reacting to the situation tweeted ‘It is unfortunate that tension has arisen due to the clash between two groups at Jalori Gate, Jodhpur. The administration has been instructed to maintain peace and order at all costs.’

जालौरी गेट, जोधपुर पर दो गुटों में झड़प से तनाव पैदा होना दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण है। प्रशासन को हर कीमत पर शांति एवं व्यवस्था बनाए रखने के निर्देश दिए हैं। — Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) May 3, 2022

Also read: No, Viral Video Does Not Show Rahul Gandhi Partying With Chinese Diplomat

Fact Check/ Verification

Upon conducting a keyword search, Newschecker found a news report by Zee News uploaded on their website on 3rd May, 2022.

According to the report, a saffron flag was hoisted at the Balamukund Bissa statue at the Jalori gate circle on Parshuram Mahotsav on 1st May, 2022. Late at night, members of the Muslim community replaced the saffron flag with an Islamic flag after which clashes took place in the city of Jodhpur and curfew was imposed in 10 areas of the city of Jodhpur.

Upon further investigation, Newschecker found a news report video uploaded by ABP News on their Youtube channel on 3rd, May 2022.

According to the news report, there was a saffron flag at the Jalori Gate Circle which was then replaced by Islamic flags which led to clashes between Hindu and Muslim groups. The report also mentioned that after the clashes had subsided, the National flag was installed in the Jalori gate circle.

Newschecker also reached out to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Jodhpur, who confirmed that there was “a Saffron flag present earlier in the Jalori Gate circle which was replaced by an Islamic flag which led to clashes between the two groups and curfew was imposed in 10 police station areas of the city.” He further added that “the Islamic flag was then replaced by the National flag and that the situation was under control and peace had been restored.”

Newschecker also tried to reach out to the District Magistrate of Jodhpur, but he was unavailable for a comment.

Conclusion

According to the investigation conducted by Newschecker, the tricolour was not replaced by an Islamic flag but rather the Islamic flag was replaced by a tricolour.

Result: False context/False

Our Sources News report by Zee News

News report by ABP

Telephonic conversation with DCP, Jodhpur

​If you would like us to fact check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 ​or email us at ​checkthis@newschecker.in​. You can also visit the Contact Us​ page and fill out the form.