The deadly coronavirus has claimed more than 2,000 lives and infected over 74,000 globally till last reports came in. With scientists around the world racing to develop a vaccine, a viral post on social media claims that India has found a cure for the catastrophic COVID-19.

Facebook page "Har Har PM" posted the link of an article along with a claim in Hindi which translates to, "India has found a cure for coronavirus! Patient recovers speedily". The headline of the attached news article in Hindi reads, "Bharat ne khoj nikala corona virus ka ilaaj! Tezi se thik huyi mareez".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the headline of the viral article is misleading. There is no such mention about any vaccine or treatment in the article. Also, the cover picture used in the article is from China.

Till the filing of this story, the post was already shared more than 11,000 times. Facebook users such as 'Vikas Rk' and pages such as Indian Army Fans had also shared a similar post. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

To verify the claim, we ran an Internet search with the viral headline. We found a news article in 'Punjab Kesari' with the same headline, cover photo and content.

The article, published on February 11, has a misleading headline. It does not talk about any treatment or vaccine developed by India. Rather, it talks about the recovery of a patient in Kerala.

The cover photo used in the article has been clicked inside an isolation ward at a hospital in Zouping in China’s eastern Shandong province.

Websites such as 'Panipat Live', 'Bhartiye Samachar' and 'The Politicalking' have copied the article from Punjab Kesari to promote the misinformation.

Thailand claims success

Recently, Thailand’s health ministry claimed its doctors have treated a Chinese woman infected with coronavirus with a cocktail of anti-virals used to treat flu and HIV. The doctors combined anti-flu drug oseltamivir with lopinavir and ritonavir, anti-virals used to treat HIV. Many prominent 'media houses' had published the development.

Hence, it is clear that India has not developed any treatment for coronavirus. The headline of the viral article is misleading.