A video is becoming fiercely viral on social media sites. Users are sharing this video claiming that the women who misbehaved with the police is Teesta Setalvad.

Sunil Gandhi captioned, “This is the great volunteer of the country Mrs. Teesta Setalvad. How gracious soumya!!” with this video posted in which It can be seen that a women who is being detained by the women police is so angry that she is spitting on the police.

Fact Check:

On reverse image search of some frames of this video on the internet, DFRAC found that the same video was shared by NDTV with the caption, “Protest with party workers in Delhi against ED questioning Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in #Watch #NationalHeraldCase Mahila Congress President Netta D’Souza spat on policemen during a protest with party workers in Delhi against the questioning of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi by the ED in the video tweeted on June 21, 2021.

#Watch | Mahila Congress President Netta D'Souza spits at police personnel during a protest with party workers in Delhi against ED for questioning Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the #NationalHeraldCase (ANI) pic.twitter.com/3bnoZP5xbV — NDTV (@ndtv) June 21, 2022

The news agency, ANI has also uploaded a video on YouTube on the same news.

On the other hand, Congress leader Netta D’Souza gave a clarification on this and captioned,“a propaganda is running against me on media. Here is the vedio to understand how I was hakled during that mud unwanted particles like hair some dust went into my mouth. Which I threw out of my mouth. I had no intention to disrespect our security personals. SATYAMEV JAYETE!” Written and tweeted a video.

A propaganda is running against me on media. Here is the vedio to understand how I was hakled during that mud unwanted particles like hair some dust went into my mouth. Which I threw out of my mouth. I had no intention to disrespect our security personals. SATYAMEV JAYETE ! pic.twitter.com/NU6LmLijkY — Netta D'Souza (@dnetta) June 21, 2022

Conclusion:

It is clear from this fact check of DFRAC that this video is of Mahila Congress President Netta D’Souza and not Teesta Setalvad. D’Souza was protesting against the ED on June 21, so social media users are sharing this video with a false claim.

Claim Review: Teesta Setalvad spat on women police

Claimed by: Social Media Users

Fact Check: Fake

(Follow #DFRAC on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube.)

https://youtu.be/hgjzQPZHndY