This poll season, many pictures are going viral on the internet with fake narratives and subtle communal undertones. One such picture is of two men with skull caps and beards burning down India's national flag.

A Facebook page called 'Kattar Hindu' posted this image with a Hindi caption that reads, "An appeal to the President - people who burn the Tricolour should be burnt alive on the road."

advertisement

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this to be a misleading claim. The incident is not from India but Pakistan.

Even though the message does not explicitly talk about any religion, but it has an insinuating message which reads "do not mix it up with religion".

At the time of filing this report, the post was shared more than 14,000 times. Even though the viral post does not mention the name of the place, many people reacted strongly believing it to be from India.

"Why are you burning the Tricolour to protest against Modi?" the Facebook post stated. Other people are seen in the picture holding banners with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's image marked with a cross on his face.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Using Google image search, we found a blog posted in 2015 on 'Bloggers Speak', where the same image and a couple of others were published with the headline "Pakistani protesters burn a poster of PM Narendra Modi". The writer gives credit to AP (Associated Press) for these pictures.

The original photograph is available on the image section of the Associated Press' website. The photograph was posted on June 11, 2015.

The image description said, "Pakistani protesters burn an Indian flag during a protest in Multan, Pakistan, Thursday, June 11, 2015. Pakistan has reacted angrily to comments made by the Indian prime minister that reportedly acknowledged Indian forces had a role in the war that created Bangladesh, a part of Pakistan until 1971, when separatists won independence after a war."

Thus to conclude, this is A photograph of a protest that took place in Multan, Pakistan. However, the viral post with his false narrative has misled many people into believing that the protesters are from India.