India celebrated 50 years of the country’s historic victory against Pakistan in the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War on December 16 this year.

In this context, a set of four photos showing actor Kangana Ranaut with Border Security Force (BSF) jawans is being circulated on social media with the claim that the Bollywood star celebrated Vijay Diwas with the BSF.

The caption to one such post reads, “#KanganaRanaut celebrates #VijayDiwas with bsf jawans and celebrate the victory of #1971War #BSFWithBangladesh1971 #SwarnimVijayVarsh”.

advertisement

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the images is misleading. These images are from Kangana’s visit to the BSF Frontier Headquarter in Jammu in 2017 to promote her film ‘Rangoon’.

AFWA probe

With the help of a reverse search on Google, we found the same images carried by multiple media outlets in February 2017.

According to a report by the Times of India , the images are from Kangana’s visit to the BSF Frontier Headquarter in Jammu on February 7, 2017. The actor’s visit was a part of a promotional tour for her movie ‘Rangoon’, set against the backdrop of World War II.

On February 7, the official Twitter handle of the BSF had also tweeted an image of Kangana with the same attire as seen in the viral pics.

The caption of the image reads, “#KanganaRanaut visited #BSF Jammu & paid tribute at Martyrs memorial. Remembered supreme sacrifice made by #Bordermen & their proud families."

#KanganaRanaut visited #BSF Jammu & paid tribute at Martyrs memorial. Remembered supreme sacrifice made by #Bordermen & their proud families pic.twitter.com/EHbxcj92vP — BSF (@BSF_India) February 7, 2017

We also found a video of Kangana interacting with BSF jawans and their families uploaded by India News on their YouTube channel on February 7, 2017.

Moreover, we couldn’t find any report on Kangana visiting jawans as part of the 50th Vijay Diwas. On December 6, sharing one of the images from her 2017 BSF Jammu visit, the actor had put a story on her official Instagram page, saluting the soldiers.

“16 December 2021 marks the Golden Jubilee of the India's victory over Pakistan in 1971.

Salute to the courage, bravery and sacrifice of #Indian Armed Forces in the 1971 Liberation War. #VijayDiwas #Swarnim Vijay Varsh #amritmahotsav,” the actor wrote.

It is hence clear that the viral images are old and do not show Kangana celebrating Vijay Diwas with BSF jawans this year.