Did prime minister Narendra Modi try to mock Rahul Gandhi by showing funny videos of his to the Russian President Vladimir Putin during his recent trip to India?

A Twitter user followed by many union ministers including PM Narendra Modi has posted a video which claims that the prime minister showed a video of Rahul Gandhi to the Russian President. India Today Fact Check Team found this to be a doctored video.

The tweet in question.

advertisement

VK Sharma with a Twitter handle @VictoryForNamo has posted this video which purportedly shows Prime Minister showing a video of Rahul Gandhi to Russian president Vladimir Putin. Sharma wrote in Hindi, "Even Russian President could not stop laughing after seeing this video, come let's see what Modiji was showing him".

In this twenty-two second long video, one can see that Modi is showing a mobile clip on a phone to Putin and Rahul Gandhi is visible in the mobile video. In the last frame, Putin is seen laughing with his hands covering his face.

This post has been retweeted nearly 400 times and liked by 100s. VK Sharma has more than one lakh followers on Twitter. Prime Minister Modi along with other union ministers like Nirmala Sitharaman and Dharmendra Pradhan are also among his followers on the microblogging site.

A look at the timeline of his account @VictoryForNamo shows that it is hyperactive account posting more than 50 tweets in last 24 hours alone. Most of these tweets and retweets target the Opposition, Rahul Gandhi and the Congress party.

Searching the internet with keywords Putin, Modi and video, India Today Fact Check Team found the original video which was tweeted by the Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Raveesh Kumar on October 5, 2018.

Sharing something special!



PM @narendramodi showing the rendition of 'Vaishnav Jan To' bhajan by Russian artist @SatiKazanova to President Putin during the lunch hosted in honour of the Russian leader in New Delhi. pic.twitter.com/fjoLKRKbYt Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) October 5, 2018

Kumar tweeted, PM Modi was showing the rendition of the spiritual song "Vaishnav Jan To" by Russian artist Sati Kazanova to President Putin during a lunch hosted in honour of the Russian leader's two-day visit to New Delhi.

The original video is 25 seconds long. One can see the Minister of External Affairs Sushma Swaraj also sitting along with others. In the over the shoulder frame where Prime Minister Modi's mobile screen is visible, one can see that it is not Rahul Gandhi but a woman in the video. The original video does not end with President Putin's laugh.

advertisement

Famous Russian singer and actress Sati Kazanova, impressed Narendra Modi with her performance "Ganesh Vandana", during his visit to Moscow in December 2015, which was reported in Russian media as well.

This particular song "Vaishnav Jan To" sung by the Russian artist was released by the MEA as part of Mahatma Gandhi's 150th birth anniversary celebrations during Putin's tour to India. Interestingly, MEA also tweeted that the Russian singer also shares her birthday with Mahatma Gandhi.

On the occasion of visit of Russian President @KremlinRussia_E to India, we are happy to present the video of #VaishnavJanTo created to commemorate #BapuAt150 by Russian artist @SatiKazanova who shares her birthday with #MahatmaGandhi! #DruzbaDosti pic.twitter.com/VbVBR4Cj6X Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) October 5, 2018

India Today Fact Check Team found that Twitter user VK Sharma posted a doctored video where Russian singer Sati Kazanova's video was replaced with Rahul Gandhi, to be misleading.