Political campaigning is at its peak in Chhattisgarh before the second phase of polling scheduled for November 20. Even social media is equally charged up, leaving no room for any political misadventure. A video clip currently being circulated on WhatsApp and Facebook show Congress president Rahul Gandhi quoting two different Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) of paddy in separate rallies. Netizens had a field day poking fun at the Congress scion.

advertisement

India Today Fact Check team found that this video was not doctored, but it was sliced in a manner to paint Rahul in poor light. The Congress chief indeed quoted a wrong figure but when pointed out, he immediately corrected himself. The correction was, however, removed from the video.

The message attached with the 45-second-long video clip reads: "Rahul Gandhi apni murkhta ka pradarshan karte hue." (Rahul Gandhi displaying his foolishness)

The video is a compilation of two different clips where Gandhi can be seen addressing two different rallies. In the first 20-second clip, the Congress president can be seen asking the people that "the government promised to give Rs 1,100 MSP for paddy. Are you really getting Rs 1,100?" In the second clip, Rahul can be again seen addressing a rally where he asked people if they are getting Rs 2,100 as MSP for paddy as promised by the government. Rahul almost quoted twice the amount in the other rally.

Users took to Facebook to post the video with comments such as "Rahul Gandhi ji mummy ko bolo badam khilaye. Kal dhaan 1,100 bol rahe the aaj 2,100" (Rahul Gandhi, tell your mother to feed you almonds. Yesterday you said the price of paddy was Rs 1,100, today you say it is Rs 2,100). Some users who shared this video claim to be associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party.

India Today Fact Check team found that the first part of the video going viral is from Gandhi's Mahasamund rally in Chhattisgarh held on Monday.

In the original video, which is nearly half-an-hour long, Gandhi said the MSP promised by the government for paddy was Rs 1,100. But he immediately corrected himself when a party worker prompted him about the mistake. His correction was dropped in the viral video.

We found that the second part of the video is from Rahul's Janjgir Champa rally held the next day. In this video,the Gandhi scion can be seen asking voters if they have received Rs 2,100 MSP as promised by the BJP-led government.

According to a report by Business Standard, the Chhattisgarh government had announced a bonus of Rs 300 in addition to the paddy MSP of Rs 1,750 per quintal. With a bonus, farmers in Chhattisgarh were supposed to get Rs 2,050 for a quintal.

advertisement

Gandhi did fumble on the figure of the MSP but he quickly corrected it. However, BJP supporters didn't miss the opportunity to reap political benefit from his mistake.

READ| Fact Check: No, Rahul Gandhi didn’t say he will make Sun rise from the West