Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s public rally at Ferozepur in poll-bound Punjab on January 5 was cancelled after his convoy was halted on a flyover for around 20 minutes, as the road was blocked by protesters in the district’s Hussainiwala area.

The incident has led to a blame game between the BJP and Congress, which is in power in Punjab. While the BJP blames the Punjab government for the security breach, the Congress claims low attendance at Modi’s rally venue forced the PM to cancel the event.

advertisement

In this context, an image showing packed crowds is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows the turnout at PM Modi’s rally venue.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the image to be misleading. This image is from a rally held by Yogi Adityanath in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district recently.

AFWA probe

Using reverse search, we found the image in question, along with a few others, posted by Adityanath on his official Twitter handle on January 4, 2021. According to the tweet, the image is from a rally held at Deoband in UP’s Saharanpur district.

We also found multiple articles on the Deoband rally. According to news reports, on January 4, Adityanath laid the foundation stone of an Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) commando training centre and launched a number of development projects worth Rs 200 crore in Deoband. He’d also addressed a public meeting during the day. However, PM Modi was not part of the event.

A video from the event can be seen below.

On the other hand, on January 5, PM Modi’s first public meeting in Punjab this election season had to be cancelled after his cavalcade got stuck due to protesters on a flyover, less than 10 km from the rally venue in Ferozepur.

After assessing safety issues, the PM’s security agencies decided to return without visiting Ferozepur. Reports also said only a small number of people made it to the venue in the rainy weather.

Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma also alleged that several buses ferrying party supporters from different districts for the event were stopped by Punjab Police at various places.

However, it is clear that the image in circulation is from a public meeting held by Yogi Adityanath in UP’s Deoband and not related to PM Modi’s Ferozepur rally.