An audio clip of a conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and singer Lata Mangeshkar is doing rounds on social media with a claim that PM Modi called the singer, congratulating her in advance for her birthday ahead of his visit to the US.

A Twitter user shared this conversation with a caption: “Birthday wish of Modi ji to Lata ji yesterday before leaving for US”.

advertisement

In this 45-second conversation, we can hear PM Modi wishing Lata Mangeshkar ahead of her birthday.

In the audio conversation, PM Modi says, “aana hoga 28 late night aur 29 morning, jab aapka janamdin ho gaya hoga (Will be returning back late on 28th and early 29th, till then your birthday would be over).”

Another social media user wrote, “Prime Minister Modi called Lata Mangeshkar to wish her in advance for her upcoming birthday as he would be travelling to US and will not be able to do so. Two Icons of India speaking to each other. #narendramodi #latamangeshkar (sic)”

The archived version of the posts can be seen here.

Prime Minister Modi called Lata Mangeshkar (Lata Didi ) to wish her in advance for her up coming birthday as he would be travelling to US and will not be able to do so.



Two Icons of India speaking to each other.#narendramodi#latamangeshkar pic.twitter.com/nxWnFOKnfk — The Voice Of Citizens (@tVoiceOfCitizen) September 23, 2021

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the conversation between PM Modi and Lata Mangeshkar is two years old. This was recorded before PM Modi went to the US for the 74th session of the UN General Assembly in 2019.

AWFA Probe

With the help of keywords, we found a longer version of the viral audio conversation between the prime minister and Lata Mangeshkar on the official YouTube channel of PM Modi, which was uploaded on September 29, 2019.

In this audio clip, PM Modi can be heard wishing Lata Mangeshkar ahead of her 90th birthday through his radio program, 'Mann Ki Baat'.

According to The Hindu, in 2019 PM Modi had visited US, where he had addressed the 74th session of the UN General Assembly and attended an Indian community event 'Howdy Modi' in Houston.

On September 22, PM Modi went on a three-day tour to the US and met with US President Joe Biden, Vice-President Kamala Harris, before meeting other foreign leaders at the first in-person Quad summit.

We could not find any news report about PM Modi wishing Lata Mangeshkar ahead of Lata Mangeshkar’s 92nd birthday in 2019, which falls on September 28.

It is hence clear that the old conversation between PM Modi and Lata Mangeshkar has resurfaced as a recent one.

(Inputs by Sonali Khatta)