Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh, columnist Shobhaa De were among some who tweeted an image that looks like the front page of US daily, The New York Times with a picture of a crocodile in tears corroborated with a headline “India’s PM cried”.

The tweets were shared after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the healthcare workers in UP’s Varanasi on Friday. While addressing the frontline workers and the challenges they are facing during the ongoing pandemic, the prime minister had become emotional.

advertisement

While Shobhaa De wrote “Savage” in her tweet, the senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh wrote, "Dr. Jaishankar Ji now that you are going to US would you please ensure The New York Times does not spoil the image of Modi ji!! After all, he is more worried about his IMAGE than worrying about the People suffering from COVID!! To him Crying at the right time is an Art!!"

Later, Singh had deleted his tweet. The archived versions of their tweets can be seen here and here.

The same viral image was posted by Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union president Aishe Ghosh and multiple Facebook users.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Digvijaya Singh, Shobhaa De, Aishe Ghosh, and other Facebook users fell for an edited image of the international daily. The edited image was tweeted from a parody account called “The Daily New York Times”. The New York Times did not feature any story on PM Modi being emotional while talking to health workers in its Friday edition.

On May 21, Prime Minister Narendra Modi became emotional while paying tributes to those who have lost their lives due to the pandemic during his address to the front-line warriors.

PM Shri Narendra Modi gets emotional while paying tributes to the people who left us due to #COVID19 . pic.twitter.com/Gl5jiv7XHo — Mann Ki Baat Updates (@mannkibaat) May 21, 2021

After this, people on social media began sarcastically targeting the prime minister using #CrocodileTears on Twitter.

Multiple users posted the edited clip of The New York Times’ Friday edition. We have not found any such image or article of The New York Times in any of its editions that shows the image of a crocodile with the text “India’s PM cried”.

In fact, we have found a parody account called “The Daily New York Times” that tweeted the viral image on May 21, with the caption “Here's some International News”.

Comparing the viral image with the NYT edition published on Friday, it can be easily seen how the cover image of Syria’s solar boom has been replaced with the crocodile image and the text has been doctored in the viral post.

ORIGINAL NYT IMAGE

Original New York Times image

VIRAL IMAGE

Hence, it is clear that several people, including Digvijaya Singh and Shobhaa De, fell for a doctored image that has no link with the newspaper The New York Times.