Uttar Pradesh is gearing up for assembly elections early next year. Apart from traditional contenders, Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has also thrown its hat in the ring this time, eyeing a sizeable share of votes in India’s most populous state.

On social media, a picture of a huge procession is being shared with the claim that this was Owaisi’s rally in Western UP The shot, taken from above, shows an unending crowd of people below a flyover.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Owaisi does have several programmes lined up in Western UP. But this picture was taken in Bangladesh in 2019 when a huge procession was organised on the occasion of Eid-Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad, in Chittagong’s Muradpur area.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here and here.

One picture, several claims

Using reverse image search, we found that the viral picture is available on the Internet since 2019. That year, it went viral with the claim that this was an anti-CAA rally in Mumbai. AFWA had then found that the picture has nothing to do with India.

We found a YouTube video uploaded on November 11, 2019, with the title “world biggest jashne julus. Allama taher shah (MJA) 2019 Chittagong Bangladesh”. This video shows the same location and procession as seen in the viral image.

More such images of the same procession were posted on Twitter on November 10, 2019, by a Bangladeshi user.

Bangladesh news portal “Bangla News 24” published an article on the procession with similar images. As per the article published on November 10, 2019, the rally was organised on Eid-Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad, in Chittagong’s Muradpur area.

Comparing the images published in the article with the viral image, we found the same green vehicle in both pictures.

Viral image

Image from news portal

Owaisi is presently touring various parts of Western UP, and as per media reports, his programmes are witnessing sizeable crowds.

However, the viral picture is not from any AIMIM rally in UP. It is a 2019 picture from Bangladesh of an Eid procession.