The tractor rallies organised in Delhi on January 26 by farmers against the three farm laws had turned violent, resulting in clashes between protesters and police.

In this context, a video, purportedly showing security personnel trying to break a CCTV camera installed near a petrol pump, is being shared on social media blaming police for the violence on Republic Day.

The caption in Hindi along with the video translates to, “I stand with Farmers. Now you can see who did the violent agitation, farmers or Modi’s police. #BoycottBJP”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. This video is almost one year old and several media reports had linked it to the anti-CAA protests.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of keyword search, we found the video in question shared by several news websites in February 2020. According to these reports, the video allegedly shows police damaging CCTV cameras at the Khureji Khas neighbourhood in East Delhi.

We also found a screen grab from the same video carried in a report by The Quint. This portal spoke to a few shopkeepers near the petrol pump seen in the video who confirmed that the video is indeed from Khureji Khas.

Quoting one of the shopkeepers, the report said, “The police broke the CCTV cameras that we had put up in our shops too. The one in the video was put up by the protesters at Khureji.”

The Logical Indian had also shared the same video on its verified Facebook page on February 26, 2020.

We found another report by Scroll.in on February 26, 2020, which has similar videos of police allegedly breaking CCTV cameras at the Khureji Khas anti-CAA protest site.

According to reports, a sit-in protest site at Khureji Khas against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was cleared by Delhi Police on February 26, 2020.

Several verified Twitter handles had also shared the video then.

Hence, it is clear that the video of police allegedly breaking CCTV cameras is linked to the anti-CAA protests in Delhi last year and not to the farmers’ agitation this Republic Day.