India seems to be tightening the screws around fugitive diamantaires, with Mehul Choksi arrested in Dominica and his nephew Nirav Modi making a last-ditch attempt to avoid extradition from the United Kingdom to India.

Ever since the two escaped after being accused of fraud to the tune of thousands of crores, there was intense debate on social media about their political connections. And now, a post circulating on social media claims Nirav Modi told a London court that his share in the scam was only a third; the rest of the amount went to BJP.

advertisement

The viral claim is an apparent screenshot of a tweet made by one “Aditi Munshi”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Media reports and court documents support the fact that Nirav Modi never made the viral claim in any UK court.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

Going through court documents and media reports, we did not find any credible information that Nirav Modi alleged a BJP role in the scam while pleading his case in UK courts.

Had he made such a claim, it would’ve surely made big news.

In March 2019, India Today debunked a similar viral claim. Using a morphed “News 18” screenshot, it said Nirav Modi testified in court that he was forced by BJP leaders to escape from India. For this, he’d paid Rs 456 crore as commission to BJP leaders.

Tracing the source of misinformation

The viral claim was apparently made from the Twitter handle @aditi_munshi. A search led us to the account of Aditi Munshi , Trinamool Congress MLA from West Bengal and a singer by profession.

Going through the timeline, we could not find the viral tweet. But searching the archives, we found the tweet was made from the handle @aditi_munshi on June 2 but deleted later.

AFWA spoke to Munshi, who attributed the deleted tweet to a fake account created in her name earlier. “My Twitter account @aditi_munshi is new and has only two tweets so far. It was a fake account that had tweeted about Nirav Modi. I have reported this to the cyber cell of West Bengal police,” Munshi told us.

The Nirav Modi case

In February 2018, the Punjab National Bank accused Nirav Modi of perpetrating a $1.8 billion fraud. The diamantaire escaped, and India declared him a fugitive economic offender.

Nirav Modi was arrested in London in March 2019 and India has been trying to extradite him since. The UK courts have rejected the businessman’s bail pleas several times.

But it is confirmed that Nirav Modi made no allegations about BJP’s involvement in the PNB scam.

advertisement

Also read: Fact Check: Morphed India Today screenshot says India leads the world in disrespecting doctors

Also read: Fact Check: Matrimonial ad seeking fully vaccinated groom is fake