As soon as lockdown was relaxed on May 4, huge crowds were witnessed outside liquor shops since early morning. Social distancing norms went for a toss as central and state governments, suffering from a dip in revenue generation, decided to open up some vends.

Soon enough, netizens started sharing photos and videos of long queues outside liquor stores, and some with happy faces exiting the shops with their hands full. Amid this, a video of a drunken policeman is doing the rounds on social media with the claim that this is the effect of liquor shops opening.

advertisement

The 90-second video with a logo of "News 18" shows an inebriated policeman, lying on the roadside, being taken away by other cops on a motorcycle.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is three years old with no connection to the lockdown and subsequent reopening of liquor shops.

Facebook user "Md Ainul Haque Hashmi" shared the video, which till the filing of this story, was already viewed 80,000 times and shared 16,000 times. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

The viral claim looked suspicious as none of the policemen in the video were wearing masks in the time of novel coronavirus.

Using InVID and reverse image search, we found the original news clip from the "News18" website. According to the news report aired on June 27, 2017, Durgesh Giri, a cop from Faizabad police station in Uttar Pradesh, was found lying drunk on the roadside, after which a police team reached the spot and rescued him.

The central government came under criticism for permitting liquor shops to resume business as it resulted in large crowds throwing caution to the winds. Following the chaos on Monday, many shops were closed down later.

But this particular video of a drunken cop lying on the roadside has nothing to do with liquor shops opening after lockdown relaxation. The viral clip is from 2017.

IndiaToday.in has plenty of useful resources that can help you better understand the coronavirus pandemic and protect yourself. Read our comprehensive guide (with information on how the virus spreads, precautions and symptoms), watch an expert debunk myths, and access our dedicated coronavirus page.

Watch India Today TV live here. Catch the latest TV debates and video reports here.