From aspirants setting a train on fire and ransacking stations in Bihar to brutal lathicharge on protesters, social media is flooded with visuals of the unrest surrounding RRB NTPC exam results. While students are upset over alleged discrepancies in results, police have cracked down hard on protesters.

One such social media post carrying images of clashes and claiming to be of the RRB protests can be seen here.

advertisement

Archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

However, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the images to be misleading as these pictures are old and not linked to the ongoing protests.

We conducted a search on each of the above visuals.

The above collage of four pictures focuses on injured women.

Image 1

This image shows a woman lying on the ground encircled by baton-wielding cops.

A reverse search revealed that the picture was taken during a protest held in Lucknow on November 2, 2018. The protesters were demanding to reduce the cut-off marks in assistant teacher examinations.

In a YouTube video of the protest uploaded by “UttarPradesh.Org”, at 0.36 seconds, the same girl wearing black t-shirt and a stole can be spotted arguing with cops.

Image 2

This picture of an injured woman is from the same protest. One can make out “Uttar Pradesh” written on the police van behind. This picture was tweeted by the official handle of UttarPradesh.Org.

Image 3

Unlike the first two pictures, this image is from a completely different incident. Using reverse search, we found it was from a protest at Banaras Hindu University held in September 2017 against lack of street lights and CCTV cameras on roads leading to the hostels. The same image can be found in the report by “The New Indian Express”.

Image 4

The fourth picture in the collage is yet again of a separate incident from UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri that took place on September 23, 2017. The victim was reportedly attacked by a stalker, who slashed both her hands. This image can be found in a “Jagran” report.

Apart from the above collage, a few more images in the viral post are being passed off as related to the RRB protest.

Image 5

This image of police lathicharging a crowd was carried in a “Hindustan Times” report dated February 26, 2019.

More than 10,000 hearing-impaired protesters had assembled outside the Disability Commissioner’s office in Pune, protesting against alleged fraudulent issuance of disability certificates to able-bodied people and demanding better jobs and education opportunities. They were later dispersed by police.

advertisement

This picture was also used by other news outlets that can be seen here and here.

Image 6

This gruesome image of a bleeding hand has been shared by multiple social media users as from the ongoing RRB protests in Bihar. However, we could not ascertain its source.

Image 7

Reverse-searching this image of a bruised leg, we found it is from April 22, 2018. A woman model was allegedly harassed in Indore by two men while she was riding her scooty. The incident was covered by prominent news outlets.

To sum up, old pictures from different places and incidents are being shared as visuals of the RRB protests. However, there has also been massive uproar against police high-handedness against the protesters.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena in Lucknow)