Fourteen civilians were killed in Nagaland on December 4 and 5, first in a botched-up operation by security forces, and then in the protests that followed.

In this context, a video showing a group of men attacking security forces is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows civilians in Nagaland confronting the army and provoking them to retaliate. In the video, a man can also be seen putting a knife on a soldier's neck.

advertisement

The caption along with the video says, "REMEMBER INDIA !! Soldiers don't fire unless attacked upon, even then they warn first. See this video, you will know #NagalandFiring".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This is a 2018 video from Colombia in South America.

AFWA probe

We did a reverse search of key frames of the video in question and found the same clip carried by multiple Colombia-based media outlets and YouTube channels in 2018.

The same video was also uploaded on the verified YouTube channel of Colombia-based news channel "Cable Noticias" on January 5, 2018. The title of the video in Spanish translates to, "Confrontation between indigenous people and military in Corinto, Cauca".

Further, we did a keyword search with the help of Spanish words and found a screen grab from the same video carried in an article by "El Tiempo", a national newspaper in Colombia, in January 2018.

According to the article, the clash broke out when soldiers tried to remove people belonging to indigenous communities from a land north of Cauca that they had allegedly illegally occupied.

Another article published by "El Tiempo" on July 12, 2018, said the man who was seen threatening the soldier with a knife was sentenced to imprisonment by a court in Cauca.

The incident was also reported by multiple other Colombia-based media outlets in 2018.

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is old and from Colombia. It is not related to the recent civilian killings in Nagaland.