RBI spokesperson has confirmed to us that the viral image is Fake and no such announcement or changes have been made. The viral image is edited.

An image of a 500-rupee note with Lord Ram’s image printed on it is widely circulating on social media with the claim that it is the new 500-rupee note that introduced by the Reserve Bank of India.

The caption of the post states, “Photo of Lord Shri Ram Chandra in India’s new five hundred rupees note. Hail Lord Rama.”

Facebook Post

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google whose results led us to the image published on a stock image website named Shutterstock. We found that the same image is available on the website. The number on the note is “9SS 436040”. The caption of the image mentions, “New Indian Currency of Rupees 500.” We can see that everything on the stock image website is the same except there is no image of Lord Ram on the note. We can see a regular 500 rupees note with Mahatma Gandhi’s image on it. This makes it clear that the viral image is digitally edited. You can see the comparison image below.

Next, Fact Crescendo contacted Yogesh Dayal from the Department of Communication of RBI who confirmed to us that the image is Fake. We will announce any new changes in the currency on the official website of RBI and not on social media platforms. The original currency details are available on RBI’s website.

Next, we check RBI’s website for any press release or notice but could not find anything relevant to the viral post. According to RBI, the Mahatma Gandhi (New) Series was introduced in the year 2016, and it highlights the cultural heritage and scientific achievements of the country. You can see the specimen of the new notes introduced under the Mahatma Gandhi New Series here. This makes it clear that the viral image is edited.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral image to be digitally altered. The RBI has not introduced any new currency with Lord Ram’s face on it. RBI spokesperson has confirmed to us that the viral image is Fake and no such announcement or changes has been made. The last 500-rupee note printed was the Mahatma Gandhi (New) Series, which was introduced back in 2016.