A video featuring a chopper showering flowers over a crowded street has been making the rounds on social media.

Many who shared this 20-second-long clip claimed that it showed the Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party government of Uttar Pradesh showering flower petals on Hindus during the Hindu New Year celebrations.

One of these posts was captioned in Hindi and said, “On the auspicious occasion of Hindu New Year and Navratri, flowers were showered on Hindus in Yogi Adityanath’s rule.”

advertisement

Archived versions of similar claims can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this claim alongside the video to be misleading. Neither is this video from Uttar Pradesh nor is it recent.

AFWA Probe

With the help of the InVID tool and reverse image search, we found a video uploaded to YouTube on April 13, 2019. The original video was ten seconds longer than the viral one.

The caption of the video mentioned it was from the 2019 Ram Navami celebrations in Ranchi. When we took a closer look, we found an advertisement hoarding on the right side of the top of a building. There, the word “Ranchi” in Hindi was clearly visible.

We then looked for more clues in the video that could hint at its location. We noticed signage for Bank of India on the right and a six-storey building on the left. We searched for Bank of India branches in Ranchi city on Google Maps.

Results took us to the bank’s branch near the Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi. Opposite it was a six-storey building — the new complex of the Sadar Hospital. When we compared the photos of the bank and the hospital to the ones in the viral video, they looked similar.

We also noticed a white temple-like structure in the original video. By searching further on Google Maps, we traced that to be a Hanuman Temple. And when we compared the Google image of the temple with the video, it became clear that the video was from Ranchi.

Still, we were not sure when the video was shot. So, we ran some keyword searches and came across a Jagran news report from April 13, 2019, about Ram Navami celebrations that year. That report also carried images from the same city square. However, when we compared those to the viral video, we found that some of the storefront signs were not the same. That indicated that the video may not have been from 2019.

Searching with more specific keywords, we found another YouTube video of Ram Navami Celebrations in Ranchi. It was uploaded on the day of the celebrations — March 25. 2018. At that time, the BJP was the ruling party in Jharkhand and Raghubar Das was the chief minister.

advertisement

While this video was taken from the ground, it was shot in the same area as the viral video. We came to this conclusion after noticing the Bank of India sign on the left, and the same hospital on the right. We also noticed that an advertisement for the same product was displayed in front of the hospital building in both videos.

To further clarify this, we reached out to Anant Chaudhary, the assistant manager of the Albert Ekka Chowk branch of the Bank of India. After watching the video, he told AFWA, “Every year, such processions take place here on the occasion of Ram Navami. But the video is most probably from 2018. Everyone out there was quite excited because of the chopper act.”

While the UP government has showered flower petals from choppers during religious occasions such as the Kumbh Mela as well, we can say with certainty that this video is neither from the state nor recent.