Like many outside India recognise Sudhir Kumar Gautam - his body painted in the national colours of India during every match - as Indian cricket's biggest fan, most cricket lovers are also familiar with 'Chacha Cricket', a veteran Pakistani cricket fan.

Pakistani cricket's evergreen mascot Chaudhry Abdul Jalil, better known as Chacha Cricket is widely recognised for attending every Pakistani cricket match. He is known for his distinct style - a green kurta-pyjama and green hat adorned with a sequined star and crescent moon - that he wears to all matches.

advertisement

Several people on social media are now claiming that Jalil aka Chacha Cricket is no more. A Facebook user wrote, "Pakistani Cricket Chacha is no more with us. RIP. May Allah Raise his Ranks in Jannah (Ameen)."

Several users on Facebook have shared this claim.

Many people believed it to be true and posted comments like 'RIP the great lover of cricket' and 'May Allah grant him the highest place in Jannat' below such posts.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. Jalil himself came out to speak against the fake news of his death circulating on social media.

The archived version of this claim can be seen here.

AFWA probe

UK-born Pakistani singer-producer & a verified Facebook user Asif Khan posted a video of 'Chacha Cricket' where he can be heard saying, "A fake video of my death is being shared on social media. Death is a reality and when it comes, nobody would be able to stop it. But I do not approve of the people who are spreading this rumour related to my death. I am very much alive and completely fine. I will keep waving Pakistan's flag till my last breath. Pakistan Zindabad!"

Pakistani news website Dawn also refuted Chacha Cricket's death claim in its report.

We also found several news reports quashing his death rumours. Reports published in 'The Express Tribune', 'Geo News' and 'Amar Ujala' have published the news of Chacha Cricket being alive.

As per a BBC report, Chacha Cricket used to work in the Forestry Department at the United Arab Emirates in the 90s. Whatever spare time he had was spent on either playing Cricket or watching the game. Soon, people began recognising him due to his catchy and patriotic slogans. As his popularity grew, Pakistan Cricket Control Board officially hired him to travel around the world following the Pakistan Cricket team.

However, the news of Chacha Cricket's death is not true.