Hijab Row is an issue raised during the protest that erupted between the students wearing saffron shawl and hijab outside the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Campus in Karnataka. According to Muslim students, they have been banned from wearing hijabs in the classroom. The matter got into heat and went into the hands of the Karnataka High Court. The state government also declared three day holiday for the school and colleges after seeing the elevation of the protest. Hijab keepers are raising voices against the ban whereas other students are defending Hinduism on Twitter. Meanwhile, political leaders also shared their views on the Hijab Row as Priyanka Vadra Gandhi made a statement, “It is woman’s right to decide what she wants to wear”.

The protest led to a new trend on Twitter (#HijabRow), users were quarrelling their opinion on social media. Nevertheless, it is a known fact that social media protest leads to the incoming of fake and misleading claims. A video is going viral on social media where people are claiming that students of a college are replacing the National Flag with Saffron Flag in Shimoga. The video has ignited the environment of communal hatred around the nation.

The National Flag is replaced by a Saffron Flag in a Karnataka College !! You have no problem Mr CM @BSBommai ??? pic.twitter.com/hAXbEpE5HU — Augustine Varkey (@logicalindianz) February 8, 2022

#Update: #KarnatakaHijabRow Education Minister @BCNagesh_bjp informs that a probe has been ordered in this incident. If at all National flag has been replaced by Saffron flag it is condemnable. — Imran Khan (@KeypadGuerilla) February 8, 2022

Renowned Newspaper, India Today also got tricked and posted a story on it.

How people are taking the #HijabRow

DK Shivakumar a verified account and a Congress MLA said, “Some anti-national elements allied with BJP have brought down the national flag in a college in Shimoga. I urge everyone to post a photo of themselves with the national flag as a mark of protest.”

Some anti-national elements allied with BJP have brought down the national flag in a college in Shimoga. I urge everyone to post a photo of themselves with the national flag as a mark of protest.#MyTricolourMyPride pic.twitter.com/zHvPg53FHh — DK Shivakumar (@DKShivakumar) February 8, 2022

https://twitter.com/AmanHarris/status/1491062299632746503?s=20&t=SQJusykUk8_oKbx7LGYKzw

Owaisi once asked Hindus, how long Modi and Yogi will safeguard you. Mr Owaisi, here is the reply..we! #Shimoga https://t.co/YGQz7vkbTo — Organic Hindu (@OrganicHindu) February 8, 2022

In short– A video is going viral where people are claiming that some students replace the Nation Flag with Saffron Flag in Shimoga District.

Fact Check

After digging inside the viral claim, we got tweets from the verified accounts ANI stating that the Tricolour Flag was not hoisted on the poll in fact the poll was empty. Students only hoisted the saffron flag and didn’t replace it with National Flag.

Karnataka Hijab Row | There was a report that the national flag was lowered & in place of that a saffron flag was put up but there was no national flag on the poll. Only a saffron flag was hoisted on top of the poll& later they removed it themselves: Shivamogga SP BM Laxmi Prasad pic.twitter.com/3EmS0Wm8C6 — ANI (@ANI) February 8, 2022

Deepak Bopanna (correspondent at Times Now), tweets that the principal of the college in Shimoga District posted a picture of a bare poll, clarifying that Tricolour Flag was initially not hoisted on the top of the poll. He also added that students only went to hoist the saffron flag on the bare poll while protesting against the Hijab Row.

Saffron flag controversy: Principal of the Shivmogga college Dhananjaya has shared this pic of the bare flag pole from earlier today. Protesting Hindu students later went on to hoist a #Saffron flag while protesting against #Hijab. He says Indian flag was removed on Jan 26th. pic.twitter.com/xQRZYbwwME — Deepak Bopanna (@dpkBopanna) February 8, 2022

India Today also covered the news of Hijab Row and clarified that the Tricolour was not replaced by a saffron flag in Shimoga and locals have informed that the flag poll was empty.

Karnataka hijab showdown: Sources say Tricolour not replaced in Shivamoga; local authorities claim flag post was empty. #5iveLive with @ShivAroor pic.twitter.com/PIxuktwG4c — IndiaToday (@IndiaToday) February 8, 2022

Conclusion: The claim on the video is fake and misleading as initially the Tricolour Flag was not hoisted on the poll and students only aimed to hoist saffron flag on the poll in occurrence of Hijab Protest.