If a viral image of a document is to be believed, the Congress party in Uttar Pradesh did not appoint even a single district chairman from the Hindu community. A list of UP Congress’ district chairmen is viral on social media with a claim that it only consists of Muslim names.

The image is doing the rounds on the internet with the caption “Congress be renamed as Indian Muslim League now....as conspiring to divide the nation again....”

advertisement @INCIndia Congress be renamed as Indian Muslim League now....as conspiring to divide the nation again....@INCIndia @RahulGandhi pic.twitter.com/s1iT2OQW7C — Raizada YVS (@yvs_raizada) February 5, 2021

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the viral post is misleading. This is a list of the district chairmen appointed by the Congress in December 2020 for its MINORITY DEPARTMENT in Uttar Pradesh. Hence, the list has names only from the Muslim/minority community.

The misleading post is doing the rounds on Facebook and Twitter. The same photo with a Hindi caption was also viral last year in December.

Archive of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

With the help of appropriate keyword search, we found that the same photo was uploaded from the Twitter handle of “INC Sandesh” on December 9, 2020. According to the caption of this tweet, these are appointments for Uttar Pradesh PCC (Pradesh Congress Committee) Minority Department.

INC COMMUNIQUE



Important Notification regarding appointment of District Chairmen/City Chairmen for Uttar Pradesh PCC Minority Dept pic.twitter.com/OOw52l731X — INC Sandesh (@INCSandesh) December 9, 2020

During that time, news agency ANI had also tweeted about the appointments of these district chairmen for UP Congress’ minority cell.

Congress appoints District Chairmen/City Chairmen for Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee Minority department pic.twitter.com/YkJYl1boIx — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) December 9, 2020

“It is understood that the district chairman for Congress minority cell would only be from the minority community, and not the majority (Hindu),” Saad Siddiqui, former National Coordinator, Minority Department, All India Congress Committee told AFWA.

We also found that the Goa unit of Bharatiya Janata Party recently declared a state executive committee for “BJP Minority Morcha” and tweeted a list of the committee members’ names. The list here as well consists of only names from the minority community.

BJP Goa State President Shri @ShetSadanand declared the State Executive Committee of BJP Minority Morcha under the leadership of President Shri Haider Shah. pic.twitter.com/6YGNp49X4F — BJP Goa (@BJP4Goa) February 4, 2021

Hence, it can be safely concluded that the viral post is misleading. The Congress had indeed appointed only Muslims/minorities for the designation of District Chairman in UP, but it is because the appointments are for the minority department.

advertisement

READ | Fact Check: This article praising PM Modi was not published by ‘The New York Times’

READ | Fact Check: This ‘Islamophobic’ news headline about Kerala cricketer Azharuddeen is fake

WATCH | Edited clip of Mamata reciting Islamic prayers linked to Netaji event controversy