An image of a woman in a fairy-like white dress, wings, and bloodstains around her neck with a few kites hanging around her has gone viral on social media. It is being said that she is protesting against kite flying during Makar Sankranti.

Makar Sankranti is a Hindu festival dedicated to the Sun god and kite flying is a major part of the festivities.

advertisement

Multiple Facebook and Twitter users have posted the viral image along with a communally twisted message in Hindi that translates to, “This woman is playing the role of a bird that has been injured by kite flying during Makar Sankranti. She should also play the role of a goat in Eid to set an example of communal harmony. Please convey the message to the lady.”

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim is misleading. The viral picture is from an NGO campaign held in Delhi for animal rights in August 2017. The campaign was against the use of harmful kite threads (manjha) that sometimes kill birds. It has no connection with Makar Sankranti or any other religious festival.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

Truth behind the viral picture

In the viral image, there are two posters against the use of Manjha that are lying around the woman. On both, the posters written are the words “Abhay Daanam”. We found that it is an organisation that works for animal rights.

With the help of keyword search, we found there were several news reports published on multiple news portals in August 2017 about Abhay Daanam’s campaign against harmful kite threads.

India Today contacted Abhay Daanam and learned that it is a Non-Governmental Organisation that runs a charitable animal and bird hospital. According to Puneet Kardam, the secretary of the organisation, the viral image is part of their campaign that they had organised on August 4, 2017, before Independence Day at Jantar Mantar, New Delhi.

“Our campaign was against the harmful effects of sharp kite strings made with glass and metals that sometimes kills birds. They can also prove fatal to humans. We are against the use of Manjha and not against kite flying,” said Kardam. “Our campaign was never against any religious event, it was not at all related to Makar Sankranti,” he added.

Along with the viral picture, there are multiple other pictures of the same campaign that can be found on Abhay Danaam’s Facebook page. These photos were also posted in 2017.

advertisement

A picture of this campaign is also available in the photo gallery of Getty Images. The photo caption to it reads, “Volunteers of the Abhay Daanam Bird care shelter and veterinary hospital protest against the sale of 'manja', or kite flying thread, in New Delhi on August 4, 2017./AFP PHOTO / PRAKASH SINGH.”

There are multiple articles published on the harmful effects of Manjha on birds, as there are reports that hundreds of birds die every year due to this reason.

But, this particular viral picture has no link to any religious festival or event, as it was solely a part of a campaign organised over three years ago. Hence the viral claim linking it to Makar Sankranti is misleading.