A photo collage of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is viral on social media with the claim that the PM is paying respect to Mahatma Gandhi as well as his assassin Nathuram Godse.

The caption in the Tamil language to one such photo collage uploaded on Facebook translates to English as "Here is the person worshipping Gandhi and his killer at the same time."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false. While the PM is bowing in front of a Gandhi statue in the first image, the second image is that of him paying homage to Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar and not Godse.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

With a reverse image search, we found the same image in question uploaded on Twitter by the Prime Minister himself on December 30, 2018, from his official handle.

The caption to the image reads, "Among those imprisoned at Cellular Jail was the great Veer Savarkar. I visited the cell where the indomitable Veer Savarkar was lodged. Rigorous imprisonment did not dampen Veer Savarkar's spirits and he continued to speak and write about a free India from jail too."

Among those imprisoned at Cellular Jail was the great Veer Savarkar. I visited the cell where the indomitable Veer Savarkar was lodged. Rigorous imprisonment did not dampen Veer Savarkar’s spirits and he continued to speak and write about a free India from jail too. pic.twitter.com/dbsyzuVUjA— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) December 30, 2018

We also found news reports by media houses on the PM's visit to the historic Cellular Jail in Andaman and Nicobar Islands where Savarkar spent ten years in captivity during pre-independent India.

The reports have carried images similar to the viral photograph where PM Modi can be seen sitting on the floor with hands folded in front of Savarkar's photograph.

PMO India's official YouTube channel had also uploaded a 46:46 seconds video of the PM's Cellular jail visit with the title "PM Modi visits Cellular Jail in Port Blair in Andaman & Nicobar".

Modi's visit to the cell where the viral image was shot can be seen from 12:22 minutes to 19:19 minutes in the video.

An image comparison of Godse and Savarkar can be seen here. On the left is the real image of Godse and on the right is Savarkar's picture - the one used in the viral claim.

This proves that the image in question is that of PM Modi paying tribute to Savarkar during his 2018 visit to Cellular Jail in Port Blair.