After Rihanna, Greta Thunberg and Mia Khalifa, has American professional wrestler Undertaker extended support for the agitating farmers?

A screenshot of a tweet supporting the farmers’ protest, which looks like it was posted from the verified handle of Undertaker, has gone viral on social media. The image shows the wrestler holding a placard saying “LET’S TEAM UP!”

The alleged tweet says, “We cannot even think of our healthy body without the crops grown by the farmers. Respect and support the farmers. #FarmerProtest.”

advertisement

Several Twitter and Facebook users have shared the screenshot with the caption, “Thanks #Undertaker for support #Undertaker #KisanAndolan # #FarmersProtest.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the text in the screenshot is morphed. On December 17, 2020, Undertaker tweeted the image to convey that WWE has teamed up with fundraising firm Omaze for a charity event. He has not yet tweeted on the farmers’ issue.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

The original tweet

We traced the original tweet that was posted from Undertaker’s official handle on December 17, 2020. It has the same image of him holding a “LET’S TEAM UP!” placard but with a different text altogether.

The caption of the tweet reads, “@WWE has teamed up with Omaze to support the life-changing work of Make-A-Wish by offering you the chance to win a day at the @WWEPC with me."

The bit.ly link opens up to the website of a fundraising company which were supposedly organising a “make-a-wish” event where the lucky participant can enter the ring with the wrestler. Comparing the viral image with the original tweet, it becomes clear that the screenshot in circulation is morphed.

Looking at the timeline of Undertaker’s Twitter handle, we found that till now, he has not yet tweeted on the ongoing farmers’ agitation in India.

READ | Fact Check: Was Sharad Pawar slapped in public for his statement on Tendulkar?

READ | Fact Check: Morphed photo shows Congress workers offering cake to Mia Khalifa's poster

READ | Fact Check: This video of liquor distribution is not from farmers’ protest