A video of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is being circulated on social media with the claim that BJP and AIMIM had struck a secret deal for the recently concluded elections in Bihar. While the NDA scraped past the majority mark in the state, the AIMIM managed to bag five seats.

Several Facebook and Twitter users posted the video of Kejriwal reading out a letter written by former BJP MLA from Gujarat, Yatin Oza. Kejriwal said a secret meeting was held ahead of polling in Bihar between Amit Shah and Akbaruddin Owaisi at the former’s residence, where Oza was also present.

advertisement

Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia is also seen sitting beside Kejriwal.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is from 2016. Kejriwal was reading out a letter written by Oza, who had alleged that Shah and Owaisi struck a secret deal for the 2015 Bihar elections.

The claim

Arvind Kejriwal reads out from the letter, “At 3 am on 15th night, there was a secret meeting between Shah and Owaisi; Oza ji says he was present in the said meeting. A detailed discussion took place and it was agreed that Owaisi shall field candidates from Bihar, particularly in the Muslim belt that was to go to polls on November 5. It was also decided that Owaisi will vomit poisonous communal speech, the script of which shall be written by Shah.”

The Facebook caption of some of these viral posts says, “AMIT SHAH aur AKBAR OWAISI ke Bihar Election Ke Planning Gujraat me Amit Shah Ke Ghar par huwi. Arvind Kejriwal”.



Another post says, “Shocking revelation by Kejriwal: Shah and Owaisi had a secret deal before bihar polls to divide votes. Polarization is used as a political tool to target opposition.”

The archived versions are saved here, here and here.

Old video resurfaces

Using InVID and reverse image search, we found that the original video was uploaded on YouTube on July 18, 2016, by the “Delhi Government”. The video title reads, “#TalkToAK: Arvind Kejriwal on Yatin Oza.” Singer Vishal Dadlani was hosting the talk show.

We found that the viral video has been snipped out of the longer original video. The initial part where Kejriwal is reading out the date from Oza’s letter has been chopped out in the viral video. In the original video, Kejriwal mentions the date September 15, 2015, when the alleged meeting between Shah and Owaisi took place at 3 am at the former’s residence.

This year’s elections in Bihar were conducted in three phases October 28, November 3 and November 7. But in the viral video, Kejriwal can be heard talking about November 5 as a polling date in Bihar, which signifies that he was certainly not talking about the recent assembly elections.

advertisement

We found several news reports from 2016, which had reported about Kejriwal’s allegations of a secret deal between the BJP and AIMIM before the 2015 elections in Bihar. The reports also said that Kejriwal leveled those charges on the basis of an allegation made by Oza through a letter. Oza was supposed to join AAP at that time.

Both BJP and AIMIM had refuted the allegations, while Asaduddin Owaisi had threatened legal action against Kejriwal.

In the 2020 elections, Congress had dubbed AIMIM as the “B-team” of BJP and accused it of colluding with the saffron party. But after their victory in five Muslim-dominated seats in Bihar, AIMIM called it a “tight slap” to those who’d accused it of being BJP’s “B-team”.