Hundreds of farmers in Haryana took to the streets against three agriculture-related ordinances passed by the Central government in June this year. Led by the Bhartiya Kisan Union, agitated farmers blocked National Highway-44 at Pipli near Kurukshetra on September 10, 2020. According to the government, these ordinances will make selling and purchasing agricultural produce easier for farmers and traders.

The farmer organisations, however, are demanding legislation to ensure Minimum Support Price (MSP), fearing black marketing in the wake of these ordinances.

advertisement

Police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the protesting farmers in view of the violation of state administration’s Covid-19 protocols.

While several images from Haryana's Kisan rally are viral on social media, one among them caught our attention. An image of a huge rally with a heavily packed crowd is shared with the claim that it is from the recent farmers protest in Haryana.

The caption in Hindi to one such image uploaded on Twitter translates to English as, “Many farmers were beaten up, arrested. Many suffered head injuries. We will tolerate all of this. What we won't tolerate is an attack on our country's farms, diversity, and the price of our crops.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is from 2017 and not related to the ongoing farmers protest in Haryana. The image is from a protest held by more than 15,000 farmers in Rajasthan in 2017.

Several netizens, including the Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, also shared this viral image mixed with recent images from the Haryana protest on Facebook.

The archived versions of similar posts using the viral image along with actual images from Haryana protests can be seen here, here, here and here.

AFWA Probe

With the help of a reverse image search, we found that the image in question is from a 2017 protest rally held by farmers in Rajasthan.

The complete version of the same image is carried in an article published on September 4, 2017, by Jaipur-based Hindi news portal Patrika. According to the report, the image was part of a historic protest held by more than 15, 000 farmers against the then Vasundhara Raje-led government in Rajasthan in 2017.

As per the report, the image shows farmers carrying out a funeral procession of the effigy of Vasundhara Raje around the city as part of the protest. A closer look at the highlighted portion on the top right corner of the original image published by Patrika shows the crowd carrying an effigy.

Here is a comparison between the image in question and the original image uploaded by Patrika in 2017.

Another article by Patrika published on September 30 also carried a similar image of the rally.

We also found the same group of protestors in a video uploaded on the official YouTube channel of NewsClick on September 12, 2017.

Multiple media organisations reported this massive indefinite agitation in Sikar that began on September 1, 2017.

According to a report in Hindustan Times, protesting farmers had 11 demands, including increasing farmers’ pension, crop loan waiver, and purchase of crops at minimum support price (MSP) among others.

It thus becomes clear that the viral image showing the massive rally is from Rajasthan’s Sikar taken in the year 2017 and has nothing to do with the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Haryana.