Spread the truth:

A message stating that the Supreme Court has ordered that ‘India’ should be called ‘Bharat’ in all languages from 15th June is being widely circulated on various platforms.

Message: 15 जून से भारत का नाम हर भाषा मे सिर्फ भारत रहेगा–सुप्रीम कोर्ट Congratulations.

Translation: Bharat will be the name of India in all languages from June 15 — Supreme Court Congratulations

The message was first posted in a Facebook group by an account named Sharmila Nain Babli on June 3, 2020. It has since then been deleted, but not before being shared almost 3000 times.

The Archive link can be found here.

The same user posted the exact same message in another Facebook group named श्री राम जन्मभूमि तीर्थ क्षेत्र. At the time of writing this article, the post is yet to be deleted by the user and has been shared by more than 1000 other users.

Archive

Facebook

The message is being posted on Facebook by quite a lot of accounts.

Twitter

The message has been tweeted by a lot of Twitter users.

15 जून से भारत का नाम हर भाषा मे सिर्फ भारत रहेगा–सुप्रीम कोर्ट

Congratulations.🚩🙏🙏 — 🚩कुँवर विशाल प्रताप सिंह 🚩 (@vishal_94500) June 4, 2020

एक अच्छी खबर जो टुकड़े टुकड़े गेंग ओर सेकुलर गेंग गिध गेंग ओर पाकिस्तान को परेसान कर देगी

.

.

15 जून से भारत का नाम हर भाषा मे सिर्फ भारत रहेगा–सुप्रीम कोर्ट

जय श्री राम — Chirag Patel (@ChiragP59764449) June 3, 2020

Truth

The message that is being circulated is Fake. Supreme Court of India never ordered this name change.

A google search using these keywords resulted in several news articles popping up that were published on June 3, 2020. According to these articles, the Supreme Court actually ordered that a plea to change India’s name exclusively to ‘Bharat’ be converted into a representation and forwarded to the Union government for an appropriate decision.

Some of the articles regarding the same can be read here and here.

Furthermore, according to the judgement copy that was released by the Supreme Court, the judgement stated that “The present petition is directed to be treated as a representation and may be considered by the appropriate Ministries.” The writ petition was disposed of after the judgement.

The complete Supreme Court Judgement Copy can be read here.

Related