On August 7, an Air India Express from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot the runway of Kerala's Kozhikode airport amid heavy rain resulting in the death of as many as 18 people including the pilot-in-command, Captain Deepak Sathe. Survivors of the incident praised the deceased pilot for his presence of mind in saving their lives.

Several pictures and videos have been making rounds on the social media platforms in a bid to pay homage to Captain Sathe. A four-minute-long video, purportedly of Captain Deepak Sathe singing the famous Bollywood song 'Ghar Se Nikalte Hi', is widely shared by netizens on social media as a tribute to the brave pilot.

advertisement

The caption to one such video on Facebook reads, "We miss you. Capt Deepak Sathe singing at IAF annual day celebrations."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim is misleading. The officer in the video is Vice Admiral Girish Luthra (Retd) of the Indian Navy singing at the Navy's Golden Jubilee celebrations in 2018.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Captain Sathe, the pilot of the ill-fated Air India Express aircraft was a former Wing Commander of Indian Air Force and served with its flight testing wing before taking to commercial flying. An alumnus of the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Pune, he was awarded the prestigious 'Sword of Honour' at the Air Force Academy (AFA).

However, the uniform worn by the officer singing in the video is the Indian Navy's official uniform.

Taking clues from this, we did a keyword search and found that the officer singing in the viral video is not Captain Sathe, but Vice Admiral Girish Luthra (Retd) of the Indian Navy.

We found a YouTube channel in the name of Admiral Luthra that has uploaded a similar video of longer duration on March 6, 2019.

In this video, before the officer took over the stage with the beautiful song, the host can be heard announcing, "Ladies and gentlemen, please put your hands up for Vice Admiral Girish Luthra."

The channel also has a couple of other videos of Admiral Luthra singing.

Vice Admiral Girish Luthra was a Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Western Naval Command. He retired on January 31, 2019, after a career spanning nearly four decades in the Indian Navy.

We also found an article by "The Quint" with the title, "This Navy Commander-in-Chief Singing Will Win Your Heart!" published on March 7, 2020.

According to the article, the video of the Vice Admiral (Retd) singing the iconic song was originally recorded in March 2018 on "the special occasion of the Indian Navy celebrating its 'Golden Jubilee' - 50 years."

Hence the video purportedly of late Captain Deepak Sathe is actually that of Vice-Admiral Luthra (Retd) singing his heart out on the occasion of Indian Navy's Golden Jubilee celebration in 2018.