Actor Aamir Khan found a special spot on the social media trending list after photos of his recent meeting with the first lady of Turkey Emine Erdogan didn't go down well with several Indians. Fans on Twitter weren't too happy because of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan recent remarks on Kashmir during his visit to Islamabad.

Amid the backlash that Khan is receiving on Twitter, a picture of him with two bearded men is doing rounds on social media with the claim that he met Pakistani terrorists during his Hajj visit.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false

advertisement

The image has been shared with the caption, "Aamir Khan never tweeted on Sushant Singh Rajput's death, not even on Independence Day. And here's a pic of him where he is meeting with Terrorist Tarik Jameel and Junaid Shamshed. SHAME ON YOU AAMIR KHAN."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. In the viral photo, actor Aamir Khan is standing with Pakistani singer-turned-preacher Junaid Jamshed, the taller man in the left of Khan and Pakistani religious scholar Tariq Jamil, the man in the right.

The viral claim can also be found here and here.

AFWA probe

When we reverse searched the viral image, we found it in a 2012 news report. The report is about actor Aamir Khan meeting former Pakistani singer Junaid Jamshed and cleric Maulana Tariq Jamil when he went for Hajj. We noticed that Junaid Jamshed's surname has been wrongly spelt as 'Shamshed' in the viral claim.

Junaid Jamshed: A singer-turned-preacher

Junaid Jamshed was a Pakistani pop singer who later turned a preacher. He died in a plane crash in the year 2016.

He had tweeted the viral picture on 14 March 2013 and mentioned that the picture shows him standing with actor Aamir Khan and Maulana Tariq Jamil.

With @Aamir_Khan and Maulana Tariq Jameel Sahab accompanied by Afridi. pic.twitter.com/SyipeQZBoq — Junaid Jamshed (@JunaidJamshedPK) March 14, 2013

Maulana Tariq Jamil - religious scholar who blamed women for pandemic

Maulana Tariq Jamil is a Pakistani religious and Islamic scholar. He made headlines this April when he blamed scantily-dressed women for the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a Daily Times article, he was conferred for a civil award by the Pakistani government.

A report published in NDTV confirms that actor Aamir Khan had met Maulana Tariq Jamil when he went for Hajj in 2012.

We also found a YouTube video in which Maulana Tariq Jamil can be seen talking about his meeting with actor Aamir Khan.

However, no report which links Junaid Jamshed or Maulana Tariq Jamil with any terrorist organisation has been found. Therefore, it is clear that the claim being made on social media is completely baseless.