Investigations into the brutal murder of Udaipur-based tailor Kanhaiya Lal have pointed to the killers’ supposed international links. According to the Rajasthan Police, one of the accused is believed to have ties with the Karachi-based outfit Dawat-e-Islami.

Amid this, a claim about the Congress-led Chhattisgarh government has gone viral. Social media users claimed the Chhattisgarh government has allotted 6,800 hectares of land for the same Dawat-e-Islami.

advertisement

AFWA’s investigation found that the Chhattisgarh Government had long rejected the application of this organisation, and this old and resolved issue has been revived following the Udaipur murder.

Archived versions of posts with a similar claim can be seen here and here.

AFWA Probe

While investigating the claim, we searched online for news reports on the Dawat-e-Islami in Chhattisgarh.

A Navabharat Times report from January 2022 states that Bharatiya Janata Party leaders in Chhattisgarh organised a press conference where they alleged that the Congress government was "funding terrorism."

The report states that Dawat-e-Islami had applied to the collector for the allotment of ten hectares of government land in Boriyakhurd, Raipur. The additional tehsildar published a memorandum on this application.

Former state minister and veteran Chhattisgarh BJP MLA Brijmohan Agrawal even tweeted supposed evidence to support the allegations.

However, we also found news reports from ETV Bharat that stated the Congress government had cancelled the application following the outrage. These reports were also from January.

These reports further stated that following the allegations made by the BJP, Congress clarified that the organisation in question was registered in Chhattisgarh and had been working in the state for about 15 years.

To further confirm the claim, we got in touch with Brijmohan Agrawal the MLA who led the agitation against the government. “Yes, following the agitation by BJP the Congress government rejected the application of the outfit for land in Raipur. However, there are apprehensions that this outfit can make fresh applications for land again elsewhere in the state,” Agrawal told AFWA.

Thus, we concluded that the claim is misleading. We could not independently verify if this organisation had any ties with the Karachi-based one. However, the Congress government in Chhattisgarh rejected the organisations' application for the allotment of land back in January.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena)