The Aryan Khan case has brought under the spotlight Mumbai's dark underbelly of drugs once again. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) conducted several raids on alleged drug suppliers and even arrested some in connection with the case.

Now, several netizens are claiming that an NCB team led by its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede was attacked by a mob of 60 people in Goregaon recently. It is also being said that the media intentionally ignored the incident.

advertisement

A Facebook user wrote a long post in Hindi that translates to, "An incident of utter bravery occurred in Maharashtra's Goregaon yesterday, but our media hardly paid attention to it. A team of six NCB officials led by Sameer Wankhede went to Goregaon after getting information about a drug peddler. As soon as the peddler arrived to deliver the drug, the team caught him and forced him inside their car. He began shouting, and a mob of 60 people attacked the NCB team.

"Then came a mind-blowing move from Wankhede. He took out his pistol and threatened to kill the peddler sitting in the car. Sensing that he was dangerous, the mob stepped back. Soon, Mumbai Police arrived and brought the situation under control. The peddler was arrested and the NCB team returned. This incident also questions the credibility of the Uddhav Thackeray government and Mumbai Police. How come such a huge drug racket was flourishing under their noses?"

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral claim to be misleading. Both Goregaon police and Wankhede have confirmed to us that this is a one-year-old incident. No such incident has occurred recently.

Using keyword search, we found that on November 22, 2020, six NCB officials were attacked by a mob during a raid on LSD suppliers at Mumbai's Goregaon. Wankhede was leading the operation. While the team was trying to take the peddlers into custody, around 60 people gathered there and attacked the team. Two NCB officials were injured in the incident. However, timely help from the police brought the situation under control.

Contrary to the viral claim, the media had widely covered the incident at that time.

In order to be doubly sure, we contacted Wankhede, who told us, "Though such incidents keep happening with us, the incident in question is old. Two NCB staff were injured in this attack."

We also spoke to a police officer from Goregaon police station, who told us that no such incident had happened in the area recently.

Since the Mumbai cruise drug bust investigation began, a lot of misinformation related to Wankhede is being peddled on social media. Previously, too, AFWA had debunked two such fake claims.

advertisement

In August this year, an NCB team was attacked by a Nigerian gang after they recovered drugs worth Rs 1 crore in Mumbai's Mankhurd.

To sum up, a one-year-old incident of a mob attack on an NCB team in Goregaon is being shared as recent.