A picture of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal walking down a narrow alley along with other people is going viral on social media. In the photo, the Aam Aadmi Party leader's shirt appears to be wet, and it is being claimed that a woman threw dirty water at him.

Facebook user "Hardik Goyal" posted the picture on social media with a claim in Hindi that translates to, "It has started. A woman threw the same dirty water at Kejriwal that is coming through taps."

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The viral picture was taken when Kejriwal was campaigning for the Bawana by-election in August 2017. No incident of anyone throwing dirty water on him was reported at the time.

AFWA probe

To find the truth, we reverse-searched the image and found it in an article on "iChowk" published on August 21, 2017.

The article carried a comprehensive analysis of the Bawana by-election in Delhi, which was held two days later on August 23. This write-up carried the viral photo, the Hindi caption of which translates to, "Kejriwal sweating it out on the streets of Bawana assembly."

Taking a clue from the caption, we searched for news related to election campaigning by Kejriwal for the Bawana by-election, following which we came across a YouTube video uploaded on August 19, 2017, by "FLP ROCKS".





In the first part of the video, Kejriwal is seen interacting with people. At 6 minutes and 40 seconds into the video, he is seen on stage addressing a gathering.

It is to be noted here that in this video, Kejriwal is seen wearing the same clothes as in the viral photo.

Actually, Delhi is pretty hot in August when the by-election was held. It is possible that Kejriwal may have been drenched in sweat due to hectic campaigning. In fact, some uniformed men seen along with him in the viral picture are also wet.

Posting the same picture, AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh had thanked the people of Bawana for ensuring the party's victory in the by-election.

According to reports, many parts of Delhi are facing a water crisis with no or dirty water flowing from the taps. But the viral picture is taken from August 2017 when Kejriwal was campaigning for the Bawana by-elections. We did not find any media report of anyone throwing dirty water on the Delhi CM at that time.