A video of a young girl singing Mohammad Rafi's super-hit track "Deewana Hua Badal" in a soothing easy-breezy tone is being widely shared on social media. It is being said that she is the daughter of singer Amit Kumar and the granddaughter of legendary singer Kishore Kumar.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The girl in the video is Ananya Sabnis, a singer from Mumbai.

advertisement

The archived version of the Facebook post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

Many users in the comment section have said she is not Kishore Kumar's granddaughter but a singer from Mumbai called Ananya. Taking a clue from this, we searched for the Facebook page of Ananya Sabnis, and were able to connect with her mother Manisha Sabnis.

We sent her the viral video and she confirmed that the girl in it is her 14-year-old daughter Ananya. She said, "My daughter Ananya has been training in music for the last seven years. She's a student of Bollywood singer Usha Timothy. She's a student of Class 9 and often performs in events."

We found the same video on the Facebook Page of Manisha Sabnis.

Who is Amit Kumar's daughter?

Singer Amit Kumar's daughter is Muktika Ganguli who had made her singing debut in August 2015. Her album "Baba Mere" was dedicated to her grandfather Kishore Kumar. A song from the album that she had sung along with her father can be seen below.

Amit Kumar had earlier shared a picture with his daughter Muktika on Twitter, which can be seen below. Looking at the picture, one can easily make out that Muktika looks entirely different from the girl in the viral video.

31st Dec show at Swabhumi, Kolkata was a grt success. double celebration as my daughter Muktika's birthday,was well attended.lovely audience pic.twitter.com/dmOchzfTYp — Amit Kumar Ganguly (@GangulyAmitK) January 3, 2018

Last year, singer Pickosa Moharkar was also falsely claimed to be the granddaughter of Kishore Kumar. That time too, several websites had debunked the claim.

Hence, it is clear that the girl in the viral video is not Kishore Kumar's granddaughter Muktika Ganguli but Mumbai singer Ananya Sabnis.