A viral video related to the current nationwide lockdown is in great discussion on social media, in the video some people can be seen beating a person. Through this video, it is being claimed that a Muslim youth is being beaten by Bharatiya Janata Party (B.J.P) workers in Madhya Pradesh during the lockdown.

The title of the post reads, “See how BJP goons are harassing Muslim youth in Madhya Pradesh during lockdown.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

We started this investigation by conducting a Google reverse image search with the help of the InVID tool. As a result, we found a bulletin uploaded on the NDTV India YouTube channel on April 18th 2020. The title of this video reads “Attack on sweeper in Devas, Madhya Pradesh with an axe.” According to this news report, the incident took place in Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh. The reporter said, “The biggest role in this ongoing war against the Coronavirus, if any, is the Corona Warriors. If anyone is facing the greatest danger in this battle with doctors and health workers, then they are the sweepers. Amidst all this, there were reports from Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh where a sweeper has been attacked with an axe. He is seriously injured in the attack. The Police is investigating about this incident.

Fact Crescendo contacted Sajjan Singh, in-charge of Khategaon Police Station,for more information about the case. He informed us that, “This incident is related to the attack on a sweeper at Khategaon on 17th April 2020, he was attacked by the local people after which the police arrested four people. All of them are still in jail, neither of them is a BJP worker nor is there any involvement of the BJP behind this attack. This incident was carried out by the local people. Also, this sanitation worker is a Hindu. Communalism has nothing to do with this incident. Be clear that no political party has been found guilty of connection in the incident during our investigation. The victim has been sent home from the hospital after treatment and he is healthy.”

Conclusion: We found the above post to be wrong after fact-checking. The video, which went viral with the claim that a Muslim youth was thrashed by BJP workers during the lockdown in Madhya Pradesh, is actually related to the attack by local boys on sweepers in Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh. Communalism or any political party has nothing to do with this incident.