The high-voltage elections in West Bengal are being played out on the social media theatre as well, with supporters of different political parties taking a dig at their rivals. The state still has three more phases to go, and elections here have been marked by sporadic incidents of violence.

Amid this, a short clip of two people assaulting a policeman inside a house has gone viral with the claim, “See how BJP leader Rinku Verma is assaulting a policeman on duty. And their leaders are talking about building a Sonar Bangla.”

advertisement

In this 1-minute-6-second video, the men are seen abusing and slapping the cop repeatedly, while another policeman is trying to stop them.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video has no connection with Bengal, and the incident is from Delhi’s Uttam Nagar area.

The archived versions of similar claims can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

While taking a closer look at the video, the first thing that struck us was the emblem attached on the policeman’s arm. At around five seconds into the video, we could see the emblem properly and found that it was not of West Bengal Police.

At around 20 seconds, we could see the letters “D” and “P” next to the epaulette on the policeman’s shoulder. This convinced us that the man is associated with Delhi Police.

Taking a cue from this, we did a keyword search and found a similar video posted by “The Times Of India”.

The caption of the video, posted on April 15, says, “A video of a Delhi police cop is being assaulted by some people inside a house has gone viral on social media. The cop is being repeatedly slapped and abused. Delhi Police has initiated a probe after the incident came into their knowledge. showing an on-duty policeman being assaulted by a gym-owner on April 1 in the Uttam Nagar area of Delhi.”

For further clarity, we did a keyword search that led us to several media reports on the incident.

According to these reports, the policeman who is being assaulted has been identified as Sushil. He is presently posted at Baba Haridas Nagar police station. Earlier, he was the personal security officer (PSO) to a person named Sanjay Gupta, a property dealer by profession.

Since Gupta had registered two cases of extortion in 2016 and 2018, Delhi Police had provided him with PSOs.

On April 1, Sushil had an argument with one of Gupta’s relatives named Ashwani. Following this, Gupta’s younger brother Rinku, a gym owner, and his accomplice Kaku beat up the policeman.

advertisement

Police had registered a case against three people, including Rinku, and withdrawn PSOs provided to Gupta.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral video is from Delhi and has no connection to Bengal or any BJP leader of the state.