The pandemic has forced India to shut schools and cancel the board examinations for classes 10 and 12. The situation is no different in many other countries.

In such a scenario, a picture of some students inside plastic cubicles is circulating on social media with the claim that this is how Thailand is showing the way in conducting classes and tests.

advertisement

The caption in Bengali translates to, “Third world country Thailand is conducting exams and classes in this manner. If they can, why can’t we?”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The picture was taken at a school in Thailand in August last year after schools reopened following lockdown relaxations. This time, the country has extended closure of educational institutions till July and most schools are conducting online classes.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

What AFWA found

Using reverse image search, we found the picture in an article published in “indiatimes.com” on August 12, 2020. The article was about how Thailand reopened its schools during the pandemic, maintaining social distancing and other Covid protocols.

Similar pictures were published by “Getty Images” and “Huffington Post”, where students can be seen sitting in a classroom shielded by plastic cubes.

As per the picture descriptions, the images were taken at a school in Bangkok in August 2020, when schools reopened after relaxations in lockdown measures.



This year, the Thailand ministry of education ordered closure of educational institutions during the second wave of the pandemic.

As per recent media reports from Thailand, the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration extended the closure of schools in Bangkok and surrounding regions to control the spread of the pandemic. The nationwide state of emergency was extended for the 12th time from June 1 to July 31.

So almost all educational institutions in the country are closed and the government is encouraging more online classes this time.

Also read: Fact Check: Morphed India Today screenshot says India leads the world in disrespecting doctors

Also read: Fact Check: Matrimonial ad seeking fully vaccinated groom is fake