With more than 900 dead and 40,000 infected, China is dealing with a massive outbreak of coronavirus. Amid this, social media is full of misinformation regarding the epidemic.

A video showing policemen dragging a woman out of a car and pinning her to the ground is going viral on Facebook with the claim that cops in China publicly killed a lady infected with coronavirus. Facebook page Daily updates uploaded the video with the claim: A lady Infected by Corona virus killed by Chinese police on road.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim to be misleading. The woman in the viral video is not infected with the coronavirus. The video is from the Heilongjiang province of China, where the government has banned private cars. Apparently, the woman did not receive any notice, and the police forcefully took her into custody for violating the order.

AFWA probe

The one-minute-33-second video shows policemen trying to overpower the woman after dragging her out of a car. The woman seems to have lost consciousness, after which she is taken in a police van. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Many Facebook users such as Aziz Lamin and Rised SoLo also shared the post.

However, Facebook user Surjakanta Pukhrambam posted a screenshot of another video of the incident, whose description says Heilongjiang has banned private cars, but a woman who said she did not receive any such notification was taken away by police.

Searching the Internet with the help of keywords like Heilongjiang woman car police we found that the video has been viral on social media since February 7, 2020.

YouTuber Truth Wins uploaded the video on February 7 with the caption, The woman was forced out of her car by the police.

The details in the YouTube video read, The government of Heilongjiang province in China bans all the private cars in the street. The woman, who did not receive the notice, was pulled out of her car by the police

Twitter handle @kiss486 also posted the same video on February 7 with details in Chinese.

The Google translation says, About three hours ago from Heilongjiang Twitter. Heilongjiang issued a notice prohibiting private cars from going on the road. An uninformed woman was then driven on the road and stopped by police. The woman had clearly informed that she had not been notified, but was still forcibly dragged off by the police and fell to the ground. She did not know what methods the police used. The woman suddenly passed out and did not move. The whole of China has fallen into a turbulent phase.

We found a longer version of the viral video on a Chinese YouTube channel Vision Times. Here, in the initial few seconds, the woman can be seen sitting beside the driver, talking on a mobile phone with a mask on her face. Policemen can be seen waiting outside the car.

advertisement

Then, in the next frame, she is being dragged out of the car by the same cops. The loose translation of the YouTube caption in Chinese reads, Heilongjiang Province has closed the province. Private cars are forbidden to go on the road. The woman was violently stunned by the police and carried onto the police car because she did not know!

The same news with the viral video is found in several Chinese websites such as secretchina.com and ntdtv.com.

According to these news reports, China has banned private cars in several provinces including Heilongjiang. In this particular video, the woman did not know about the notification, and policemen forced her out of the car and took her in custody.

During the scuffle, she lost her senses and was taken to a police van. People on social media criticised police for violent action. But nowhere was it reported that the woman was infected with coronavirus or that she was killed by the police.

advertisement

However, it is true that Chinese authorities have imposed several restrictions on citizens’ movement to tackle the further spread of coronavirus. These reports can be seen here and here.

AFWA has earlier debunked a number of fake news related to coronavirus.