In the light of the health emergency concern, several false narratives are going viral on social media, which are creating panic among the citizens of different countries. Amidst this a viral image on social media claims that doctors and nurses in Italy are dying and are lying dead on the ground due to the Coronavirus outbreak.



The post reads “17 Docters n nersus died yesterday in italy whith the others 739 died pray for italy bros n sis.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a Google reverse image search which lead us to a news published by The Jakarta Post on 19th March 2020. The caption on the photo reads “Youngsters wearing protective suites take part in a performance as part of an awareness campaign against the spread of the new coronavirus, COVID-19, in Bogota on Wednesday. Colombian President Ivan Duque declared a state of emergency, asking citizens older than 70 to remain indoors. (AFP/Juan Barreto).”From the above description it is clear that the viral image does not show dead doctors and nurses lying on the ground after the Coronavirus outbreak. It is originally a part of a demonstration which was part of an awareness campaign against the spread of the new coronavirus, COVID-19, in Bogota. The photo was captured by a Photographer named Juan Barreto who works with the AFP.

This image was also published by AFP Photo on their official Twitter Account which states that this image is from Colombia. The tweet reads as “Youngsters wearing protective suites take part in a performance as part of an awareness campaign against the spread of the new coronavirus, COVID-19, in Bogota.” You can also view other images of the same demonstration.

#Colombia

Youngsters wearing protective suites take part in a performance as part of an awareness campaign against the spread of the new coronavirus, COVID-19, in Bogota.

📸 @jbarreto1974 pic.twitter.com/lcgI08itkK — AFP Photo (@AFPphoto) March 19, 2020

Archive Link

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above mentioned post to be False. The viral image is originally from Colombia and not from Italy. The image does not depict dead doctors and nurses in Italy. It is a part of a demonstration by youngsters to spread awareness about Coronavirus in Bogota.