The highly infectious and more lethal Delta variant of coronavirus, which originated in India, has now reached over 100 countries, according to a recent estimate by the World Health Organisation (WHO).

The Delta variant has become a major concern for the United Kingdom, causing over 90 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases in the country. Scientifically termed as B.1.617.2, it is 40-50 per cent more transmissible than the Alpha strain.

advertisement

As scientists around the world are trying to find out more about this mutation, a message circulating on social media has made multiple claims regarding the symptoms, detection and severity of the Delta variant.

Read the post here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) tries to decipher each of the claims made in the viral post.

Are symptoms of Delta-induced Covid different?

According to the viral post, the Delta variant would cause no cough or fever, but joint pain, headache, neck pain, upper back pain, weakness and lack of appetite. In reality, the symptoms of Delta-induced Covid are similar to those of other strains such as persistent cough, headache, fever and sore throat.

However, Covid patients in the UK infected with the Delta variant have reported that some symptoms are slightly different and new for the patients.

GP Buddy, an Irish online medical directory for family doctors, found that sore throat was the most commonly reported symptom by the patients. This study found that cough was the second most common symptom, followed by nasal congestion, sinus congestion, and then fever.

As per data from "ZOE COVID Symptom Study" in the UK, which tracks Covid-19 symptoms people self-report on an app, cough and loss of smell seem to be less common. Headache, sore throat, runny nose and fever seem to be more common.

However, the observations in the UK and the scenario in India may be different. AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said they are seeing the same type of symptoms with the Delta variant with no noticeable difference compared to earlier strains.

Does Delta spread more easily?

Yes, Delta is spreading 50 per cent faster than Alpha, which was again 50 per cent more contagious than the original SARS-CoV-2 strain.

"In a completely unmitigated environment, where no one is vaccinated or wearing masks, it is estimated that the average person infected with the original coronavirus strain will infect 2.5 other people. In the same environment, Delta would spread from one person to maybe 3.5 or 4 other people," says Dr F Perry Wilson of Yale School of Medicine.

Is the Delta variant more deadly?

advertisement

Scientists are still tracking data to determine how deadly the Delta variant is. However, the Delta variant seems more likely to lead to hospitalisation and death in the UK, particularly among unvaccinated people, according to a recent study published in "The Lancet".

Where does it affect?

According to the viral claim, the Delta variant affects the lungs directly and is absent in the nasopharyngeal region.

Experts believe it is not completely true.

"The Delta plus variant of Covid-19 has greater affinity to lung tissues as compared to other strains, but it does not mean it will cause severe disease or is more transmissible," said Dr NK Arora, head of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), the Covid working group.

"Delta Plus is having greater affinity to mucosal lining in the lungs, higher compared to other variants, but whether or not it causes damage is not clear yet. It also does not mean that this variant will cause more severe disease or it is more transmissible," Dr Arora said in a recent interview.

As per "Health Desk", a Covid resource for journalists powered by public health experts, all tests taken for the Delta variant, including ones that come back positive, are swabbed from the "nasopharyngeal region" in our noses. As of now, there is no research that says the Delta variant is not being detected in the nasopharyngeal region.

advertisement

Can RT-PCR test detect Delta?

According to the viral post, no. But experts say the current tests can detect the Delta variant too.

The 'Gold Standard' RT-PCR test and Rapid Antigen Test continue to work well, and there is no evidence to show that any of the existing Covid variants could escape the diagnostics, including the currently-dominant Delta variant across the world. This has been opined by scientists of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) as reported by "The Hindu".

"It is extremely rare for two 'false negatives' to come out of RT-PCR testing, and hence, most testing kits continue to be valid," said scientist Divya Tej Sowpati of CCMB at a webinar organised recently.

The viral claim further asks people to follow double masking and maintain social distancing for the Delta variant, which are nothing unique. These protocols are applicable for all Covid variants.

advertisement

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Delta plus virus may have got its foot in the door in India, but it's not the dreaded third wave yet

ALSO READ | Shah’s letter to Yogi on Covid vaccinations being key to UP polls is morphed