Rajasthan has witnessed incidents of communal unrest in the past few months. Following this, a section of netizens is now campaigning for a change of power in the state. Hashtags of #___, which translates to—“Rajasthan wants Modi government” also started trending on Twitter on May 21.

A postcard has gone viral on Twitter that depicts an alleged hegemony of the Muslim community in the state under the current Congress regime. On the postcard, an image of mob violence is seen with several people donning skull caps on the spot. Images of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP National President JP Nadda have also been added to it with a text in Hindi that blames Congress for making Rajasthan the “capital” of the Muslim community.

here and here. Archived versions of similar posts can be seenand

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this postcard to be misleading as the image of violence used in it is not from Rajasthan. It is an almost year-old photo from Bangladesh.

AFWA Probe

With the help of Google Lens, we searched the image on the viral postcard and it took us to an article published by ‘Mint’ on 29 March 2021.

However, the 'Mint' report didn’t carry the exact image like the one seen on the postcard. A similar-looking image was carried with the report that said the protest was triggered in Bangladesh last year following PM Modi's visit to the neighbouring country.

We further ran some keyword searches to find out more about the protest. This led us to an archived story of ‘Dhaka Tribune’ that had the exact image used in the viral postcard.

According to the report, it was taken by photojournalist Mahmud Hossain Opu in Bangladesh’s Jatrabari area on March 28, 2021.

Mahmud Hossain Opu, a contributor for agencies like AP and Al Jazeera - also posted this photo on his official Facebook profile captioned “my publication” on March 29, 2021.

The report mentioned that ‘Hefazat-e-Islam’ --an Islamic group had called for a daylong protest against PM Modi's tour in Bangladesh and had blockaded the Dhaka-Chittagong and Dhaka-Sylhet highways.

According to a report in ‘The Hindu’, ‘Hefazat-e Islam’ was the main catalyst behind the mass anti-Modi protests in Bangladesh during his visit to attend the Golden Jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's independence. As noted in the report, ‘Hefazat-e-Islam’ is an umbrella organization of radical Islamists. It has records of clashes with the Awami League government as well.

Thus, it is safe to conclude that even though Rajasthan has witnessed communal clashes in recent times, the image claiming to be from Rajasthan was shot from Bangladesh.