Just couple of days ahead of the launch of monsoon session, Congress President Rahul Gandhi's letter to PM Modi to ensure passage of Bill that provides 33 per cent reservation for women in Parliament and state assemblies raised the pitch over the issue. The ruling responded by asking BJP to return favour on triple talaq and nikah halala, the women reservation bill issue was trending on the social media.

advertisement Our PM says hes a crusader for womens empowerment? Time for him to rise above party politics, walk-his-talk & have the Womens Reservation Bill passed by Parliament. The Congress offers him its unconditional support.



Attached is my letter to the PM. #MahilaAakrosh pic.twitter.com/IretXFFvvK Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) July 16, 2018

While the BJP and Congress leaders were engaged in barbs, All India Trinmool Congress MP Derek O'Brien boasted by tweeting:

One woman (@MamataOfficial) is the Chairperson of a party which already has 33 per cent of its LS MPs who are women.

Lots of buzz today on the Womens Reservation Bill #Parliament Proud to be a worker of a political party which already has 33% of its Lok Sabha MPs who are women. Very cool, Trinamool Derek O'Brien (@derekobrienmp) July 16, 2018

India Today Fact Check team tried to find out how serious are our political parties when it came to giving tickets to women candidates in 2014 Lok Sabha polls.

The current 16th Lok Sabha has only 62 women MPs which makes up only 11 per cent of the entire strength.

This is because mere 668 women candidates were in fray out of a total of 8251. Out of these 206 were independent candidates contesting.

The real culprits were National and State political parties which showed little faith in women candidates, with West Bengal Chief Minister and All India Trinmool Congress (AITC) President Mamta Banerjee as the only exception.

Take a look at how our political parties fared when it came to fielding women candidates.

Ruling BJP which won on 282 seats had fielded only 38 female candidates on 428 seats it contested. The party trusted women candidates on a poor 8.8 per cent of the total seats it fought.

The main opposition party, Indian National Congress won 44 seats. The party had fielded female candidates on only 60 out of 464 seats it contested which comes to a just 12.9 per cent.

Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Admi Party which tried its luck in 439 constituencies fared a little better by giving ticket to 13.4 per cent female candidates. It fielded women leaders on 59 out of 439 seats contested.

State parties headed by women leaders threw some interesting figures. While Mamta Banerjee's All India Trinmool Congress (AITC) posed faith in women candidates, Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Late Dr J Jayalalitha's All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) fared poorly.

advertisement

Trinmool Congress contested on 45 seats and fielded 15 women candidates. Mamta's party gave exactly 33 per cent tickets to women making it the stand out political party to bring into practice the women reservation.

Late Jayalalitha's party AIADMK gave only 10per cent tickets to women candidates. It fielded just 4 women on 40 seats it contested. Mayawati's BSP fared poorest. It gave only 5.3 per cent ticket to women candidates. The party fielded just 27 women in 503 constituencies it fought.