A tweet by Congress leader Fairoz Khan has gone viral with the claim that two aspirants died during a physical test in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district. Khan is also a former national president of the NSUI.

Fairoz Khan's tweet

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

Khan tweeted photos of two men lying unconscious on the ground with the caption; "Pained to hear that 2 unemployed youth died of cardiac arrest during physical test in Udhampur. We all feel grief and sorrow on their untimely death. May their soul rest in peace. This is gift of BJP government to youth of this nation. Unemployment at its peak #revokeSRO202."

advertisement

Among others, Facebook page 'Rahul Gandhi PM2019' has also posted these photos with the same message in Hindi.

India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that no such physical test for recruitment took place recently in Udhampur and the photos are not from there.

Physical test for recruitment of 174 (TA) Engineer Regiment is going on in Akhnoor, which is about 90 km from Udhampur.

However, no such incident has taken place there either. Office of sub-divisional police officer of Akhnoor has also issued a press note on Wednesday (February 6), requesting mainstream and social media news groups not to believe such rumours.

The press note said, "The recruitment rally is going on smoothly/peacefully without any incident till now."

To cross-check the information, we contacted Udhampur SSP Rajiv Pandey who confirmed us that no such physical test is going on in his area.

We also searched for news related to deaths during a physical test for recruitment, but couldn't find any report.

We found news of a BSF jawan's death during a field physical test in Udhampur on May 13, 2017, but the current photos being circulated are not of him. The incident was reported by many prominent media houses back then, including NDTV.

India Today also spoke to Fairoz Khan who tweeted this message. He said he had received these photos and the information from a local source. However, he couldn't confirm the source.

It is clear that the viral photos are neither from Udhampur nor from Akhnoor.

(With inputs from Sunil Bhatt in Jammu)