All hell broke loose on Monday evening when the government announced that Jio Institute has been shortlisted to be among six educational institutions in the country which will get a status of 'Institution of Eminence'.

People questioned how come an institute which can't even be found in a Google search get the status of Institution of Eminence?

Our Viral Test found that the people raising this question have not done their homework properly.

advertisement

Jio Institute became the most trending topic on social media with critics calling it an example of Modi government doling out favours to Mukesh Ambani. Congress jibed with the stinging comment - Suit Boot Ki Sarkar.

Overnight, a parody account of Jio Institute was born. Full of satire mocking Narendra Modi and Mukesh Ambani, the tweets of that account were shared by eminent people like Ramachandra Guha.

BJP leader Yashwant Sinha quipped how come an institute, which is yet to come into existence, get an eminence tag?

There are mainly three points being raised.

1. How can an institute become eminent even before coming into existence?

2. Why should Jio Institute of Reliance Foundation get Rs 1,000 crore from the government when it is backed by the richest man in the country?

3. Were other applicants in the private sector bypassed to pick Jio Institute?

All the three presumptions are far from reality and people needed to Google a few more things to find out the truth. Whether or not the Modi government is bending backwards to favour Ambanis is a matter of debate, but at least in this case the critics are on a slippery ground.

The advertisement of University Grants Commission (UGC) published way back in September 2017 inviting proposals for Institution of Eminence clearly says that there are 'three' separate categories for application. The third category is for "Sponsoring organisations for setting up new institutions", which clearly means that institutions which are yet to come into existence can apply provided that they fulfill other conditions. Jio got shortlisted in the third category.

It is also important to note that Jio hasn't yet been awarded the status of Institute of Eminence. It has just been shortlisted for building one.

The higher education secretary R Subrahmanyam made it clear, "As of now, they have just got a Letter Of Intent".

Second, will Jio Institute get Rs 1,000 crore from the government as being alleged? The answer is plain and simple NO. Only selected government institutions will get the financial assistance.

advertisement

Third, why was only Jio picked up while 10 other applicants had also applied in the same category (those who want to build a new Institution?

The above question can only be answered after studying in detail the applications of all other 10 applicants. Did they fulfill all the conditions like availability of land, financial strength and detailed implementation plan? The government has emphasised that shortlisting six institutions does not mean all the process is over.

Fourteen more institutions will be identified and it's a work in progress.