The recent communal violence in Tripura has generated more controversy with police slapping UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act) charges on a group of Supreme Court lawyers on a ‘fact-finding mission’ and 102 social media handles.

Amid this, a video of a massive protest has gone viral with the claim that this was in support of Muslims who faced violence in the northeastern state.

advertisement

Several Facebook users posted the video showing thousands of Muslims marching on the street with hashtags such as #tripuraattrack, #StandwithTripuraMuslims, #TripuraMuslimsUnderAttack and #SaveTripuraMuslims. The accompanying caption in Bengali translates to, “Allah Hu Akbar! Why is the butcher Modi silent?”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is of a rally organised in November 2020 by Hefazat-e-Islam and other radical groups in Dhaka. The protest was against French President Emmanuel Macron’s support for secular laws that allowed caricatures of Prophet Muhammad in France.

AFWA probe

Using InVID and reverse image search, we found the same video on a Turkish news website published on November 2, 2020.

As per this website, the video shows a protest demonstration in Dhaka, Bangladesh, where thousands marched on the streets against French President Emmanuel Macron who’d supported caricatures on Prophet Muhammad.

An English translation of part of the text says, “Thousands of people, including the Hefazat-e-Islam group, marched towards the French Embassy in Dhaka after the Friday prayers at the country's largest mosque, Baitul Mukarram Mosque.”

Other international news reports about the protest can be seen here and here.

News agency Associated Press on November 2, 2020, also reported about the same protest march against “the French president’s support of secular laws that allow caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad”.

“The protesters, organized by the Hefazat-e-Islam group, a network of teachers and students at thousands of Islamic schools, gathered outside the main Baitul Mokarram Mosque in downtown Dhaka,” the AP report said.

Later, on November 7, 2020, the “AP Archive” YouTube channel uploaded similar visuals of the same protest.

The YouTube channel of Voice of America, “VOA News”, also uploaded similar visuals of the protest.

Therefore, we can confirm that the viral video is not connected to the recent violence in Tripura, but shows an anti-France demonstration in Dhaka last year.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Virat Kohli did not ask Afghan captain to choose bowling after toss in a T20 match

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Netizens drive on the wrong side of facts on PM Modi’s Italy tour