A video is getting viral on social media sites getting a lot of attention of netizens. In the video one can see that the BJP members are raising their party flag instead of tri-color flag during the national anthem.

Social media users are claiming it as a recent incident and sharing it with lots of aggression towards BJP government.

Many users are sharing this video under different captions. A user wrote “Do you hoist the BJP flag with the national anthem or the tricolor flag. Fake patriots have some shame.” (English translation)

Another user named Dr. Anil Kumar Sahani shared the video and wrote “Do you hoist BJP flag with national anthem or tricolor flag #Wake up_Wake up” (English translation)

Fact check:

To investigate the above claims we searched for specific keywords and found the same video was uploaded on the youtube channel with the caption, “Shivraj singh chouhan National anthem recited after hoisting BJP flag.”

We further found that the video was from an event of “Panchayat Chalo” Abhiyan where National Anthem – “Jan Gan Man” was recited after hoisting BJP flag instead of Tri-colour at Raj Nagar, Chhattarpur district.

At the same time video was uploaded o date 17TH May 2018.

(22) Shivraj singh chouhan National anthem recited after hoisting BJP flag – YouTube

On further investigation we found tweet from Dineshh shukla who is a Journalist and wrote, “ In village Khajua near Khajuraho under Chalo Panchayat Campaign in MP

@ChouhanShivraj saluted the BJP flag and the national anthem was sung… Will the BJP flag be hoisted in the country instead of the tri-colour and the national anthem will be played now?”

This was too uploaded on the same year i.e. 2018

Conclusion:

The video that is getting viral is in reality from the year 2018 and not from the recent year hence the viral claim of social media users is misleading in nature.

Claim Review: BJP hosted their party flag instead of Tri- color flag during the national Anthem.

Claimed by: social media users.

Fact Check: misleading.