Professor Neena Gupta, a mathematician at the Indian Statistical Institute in Kolkata, was recently declared the winner of the Ramanujan Prize for Young Mathematicians for this year.

The Kolkata-native received recognition for her "outstanding work in affine algebraic geometry and commutative algebra, in particular for her solution of the Zariski cancellation problem for affine spaces."



Following the declaration, many netizens shared Neena's photo, congratulating the "first Indian ever" to win the prize. One such post can be seen here.

advertisement

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading as three other Indian mathematicians have received the award since it was instated in 2005.

AFWA PROBE

The DST-ICTP-IMU Ramanujan Prize for young mathematicians is awarded annually to a researcher from a developing country who is no older than 45 years. Researchers working in any branch of the mathematical sciences are eligible for the prize that carries a $15,000 cash award.



Using the keyword search, we retrieved the list of winners from the website of the International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP). The page states the profiles of all 17 winners so far.

The list clearly confirmed that Neena is not the first Indian to win as three others -- Ritabrata Munshi (2018), Amalendu Krishna (2015), Sujatha Ramdorai (2006) -- have already been honoured with the same prize. You can read more about the winners here.



Some social media posts claimed that Neena is not the first Indian to win the award, but is the first woman from the country to do so. However, the data on the ICTP website proves this to be wrong, as well as the second recipient of the Ramanujan Prize in 2006 was Dr Sujatha Ramdorai -- who was then a professor at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR).

Therefore, it can be concluded that the viral post claiming Kolkata-based scholar Neena Gupta is the first Indian to be honoured with the Ramanujan Prize for Young Mathematicians is misleading.