The social media has been a constant tool of support to the victims of the New Zealand mosque attacks that claimed as many as 50 lives on March 15. But, at the same time, incorrect and misleading information is also doing the rounds on various social media channels.

An image recently posted on Facebook page 'Paschim Banga Buddhijibi Mahal' shows people forming a human chain around a building. The post claims that after the terror attack in Christchurch, New Zealand, citizens are protecting Muslims while they offer prayers.

advertisement

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. This photograph has no relation with the New Zealand terror attack. This is a two-year-old picture from Rotterdam, Holland.

The post, translated in English, reads: "Pray peacefully. We will protect you standing outside the mosque. We are the common people of New Zealand. Let's spread this message of brotherhood from New Zealand."

This Facebook page has over 3 lakh followers.

The post was shared by nearly thousand people at the time of writing this story -- with more than 1.5 lakh likes.

By using the reverse-image search, we found that the picture was taken on February 3, 2017. The picture was posted by a Twitter handle named @IslamThought, claiming this to be the picture of a human wall taken inside a Rotterdam mosque.

On that day, a few local Dutch had organised a protest to express their solidarity with the Muslim population of Holland.

Absolutely beautiful!



Dutch people protecting the Essalam mosque during Jummah prayer in #Rotterdam today.



Together we are strong! pic.twitter.com/NAEbEs0xF4 IslamThought (@IslamThought) February 3, 2017





When we searched with keywords "Rotterdam mosque + protest movement + human wall" on the Internet, we came across an article of French news agency AFP on 'The Straits Times' website. The article was published on March 6, 2017. It speaks about another protest movement at an Amsterdam mosque to show solidarity with the country's Muslim population. This is after an anti-Islam MP vowed to shut down mosques and ban the Koran if he wins elections.

The image in question was also published with this article. The image caption stated, "People form a human chain around the Essalam mosque on February 3, 2017, in Rotterdam."

We have also found the image on the website of Getty Images.

Based on our research, we found that the claim is entirely false.