Russia and Ukraine are set to hold the third round of talks on Monday, March 7 in an effort to end the war. In this context, a set of six images are circulated on social media as from the crisis-stricken Ukraine.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that five out of the six images in this post are old and not related to the ongoing conflict between Ukraine and Russia.

advertisement

AFWA probe

With the help of a reverse search on Yandex, we found this image of a woman walking through debris carried in a report by BBC News China published in February 2000. As per the report, the image was shot at Grozny, the capital city of Chechnya, Russia.

Grozny was attacked between December 1999 and February 2000 by Russian forces in a fight against the Chechen separatists, leaving the city devastated.

In 2016, the image was used by The Wall Street Journal with credits to the Associated Press. The caption read, “A Chechen woman amid the ruins of a market in downtown Grozny, Feb. 15, 2000.”

The second image shared with the post is also more than two decades old.

According to an NBC News report, the photo captured the unfortunate death of a twelve-year-old Palestinian boy during a gun battle in Gaza Strip on September 30, 2000.

“Footage captured on Sept. 30, 2000, depicted the death of Mohammed al-Dura, left. The images showed the terrified boy and his father, Jamal, cowering in front of a wall amid a furious exchange of fire between Israeli forces and Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip,” reads the caption to the image.

Over the years, images of the incident were carried by multiple media houses.

According to the website of TIME magazine, this image of an injured girl in the hospital was taken in Douma, Syria. It was photographed on August 22, 2015, by Abd Doumany for the Agency France Press (AFP).

The image was also carried by other media outlets as from Syria.

This image of a child amid the debris of a building is from a music video.

We performed a reverse search of the image with appropriate keywords. This led us to a music video about the children of Donbas in Ukraine, uploaded to YouTube on August 16, 2015.

The title of the video in Russian translated to, “Angel, a song about the children of Donbas.”

Around 50 seconds into the music video, the same child in the viral image can be seen walking through the debris. The child along with another appears in multiple frames of the video.

In 2015, the image was fact-checked by Stop Fake, a Ukraine based fact-checking organisation. In the story, Stop Fake shared the screenshot of a now-deleted Facebook post by Dav Levi who filmed and edited the video. In his post, Dan stated that the video was completely fictional and the children seen in the video were safe with their parents. We couldn’t retrieve this post dated August 17, 2015, since Dan deleted all his posts before 2019.

We found this image that showed a large set of destroyed high risers published in 2006 on a website called Deviant Art. As per the site, the image was clicked on August 20, 2006, during the Lebanon War, aka the 2006 IsraelHezbollah War or July War.

The same image along with other photos taken from the same site was carried by multiple media reports as from the Lebanese war of 2006.

On the morning of July 12, 2006, Hezbollah commandos had launched a cross-border raid on an Israeli armoured patrol, killing two soldiers. Within days, this act escalated into the devastating 34-day conflict between Israel and Lebanon’s Shiite military-political force.

advertisement

The sixth image shared along with the post was carried by multiple reports, including that of BBC, as from the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict. Also, we couldn't find an earlier version of the image on the internet.

However, it is clear that the rest of the five images used in this post are old and not related to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war.