As videos and images of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine fill up social media, an image of a child amid the debris of a building is being circulated with the claim that it is a scene from the ongoing conflict.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the image of the child is from a 2015 music video.

AFWA probe

We performed a reverse search of the image in question on Google and found the same image carried by multiple websites over the years. This confirmed that the image was old and not related to the current unrest in Ukraine.

A further search with appropriate keywords led us to a music video uploaded to YouTube on August 16, 2015.

The title of the video in Russian translates to, “Angel, a song about the children of Donbas”

Around 50 seconds into the music video, the same child in the viral image can be seen walking through the debris. The child along with another one also appears in multiple frames of the video.

We also found another video on YouTube that showed the family of the two kids who acted in the video. As per the description of this video, the children seen in the video are siblings and they live with their mother in a shelter home in Ukraine. It also says the video was shot in the Nikishyne village in Eastern Ukraine’s Donetsk Oblast.

In 2015 the image was fact-checked by Stop Fake, a Ukraine based fact-checking organisation. In its story, Stop Fake shared the screenshot of a now-deleted Facebook post by Dav Levi who filmed and edited the video. In his post, Dan stated that the video was completely fictional and the children seen in the video were safe with their parents. We couldn’t retrieve this post dated August 17, 2015, since Dan deleted all his posts before 2019.

With the available information, however, it is clear that the image in circulation is from a music video that is more than five years old and not related to the current unrest in Ukraine.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal in New Delhi)