Spread the truth:

A picture of a man holding a file and crying is getting viral on various social media platforms with the following text.

“He is Rajesh Tiwari, 29, Lucknow. The Only person who earns in the family of Seven Members. He Got 643 Marks in the UPSC Civil Services exam this year But Failed coz Cut Off for General Category was 689 this year. For SC/ST it was 601.”

Claim: The text claims that this is the picture of Rajesh Tiwari from Lucknow who is having seven members in his family and he is the only person to earn in his family. He got 643 marks in his UPSC exam where he failed as a general category candidate while the cutoff for SC/ST it was 601 marks and on the other hand for general category candidate it was 689 marks this year.

Facebook

Several users on Facebook shared the viral image with the same viral text.

Twitter

He is Rajesh Tiwari, 29, Lucknow. The Only person who earns in the family of Seven Members. He Got 643 Marks in UPSC Civil Services exam this year, But Failed coz Cut Off for General Category was 689 this year. For SC/ST it was 601. 1/3 pic.twitter.com/UH6I9f9iH9 — Syntax Error (@SyntaxErrorism) June 2, 2021

A Twitter handle named syntax error shared the viral picture and its archived version can be accessed from the following link.

1/1 He is Rajesh Tiwari, 29 Lucknow, The Only person who earns in the family of Seven Members. He Got 643 Marks in the UPSC Civil Services exam this year But Failed coz Cut Off for General Category was 689 this year. For SC/ST it was 601#ban_castereservation #Twitter #people pic.twitter.com/vlKkZv41Nn — Siddartha Reddy C (@sidduchitiki143) June 3, 2021

He is Rajesh Tiwari, 29, Lucknow. The Only person who earns in the family of Seven Members. He Got 643 Marks in UPSC Civil Services exam this year, But Failed coz Cut Off for General Category was 689 this year. For SC/ST it was 601. 1/3 pic.twitter.com/pCJgtcqFNz — Amitabh Chaudhary🚩🇮🇳 (@HumAmitabh) June 3, 2021

Truth

NO this viral picture claiming to be of Rajesh Tiwari from Lucknow along with the viral text is actually from Bangladesh

During the course of our investigation, we found out that this photograph is in circulation since 2017 with the same narrative.

This post can be accessed from the following link. We further used google reverse image search and found out this picture embedded in a bangladeshi website.

In this Article we got to know that the individual in the picture has been identified as Saeed Rimon (সাঈদ মন াভ). On further investigation and key word searches related to Saeed Rimon we found out an article on a Bangladeshi news website Jago news 24 which said that Rimon has been raising awareness on the prevention of road accidents for the last seven to eight years. He educates school and college students about road accidents and distributes informational pamphlets.

The man, Sayeed Rimon himself posted this photo on his profile on 19th Feb 2017

We also found various articles linked to Saeed Rimon on this news website and in one of these articles we found a link about a facebook post done by Saeed Rimon.He stated that “he wrote, “This picture was shared on Indian social media and linked to unemployment. I have also been wrongly identified as Rajesh Tiwari.”

Using a fact check done by India Today, he himself cleared it on Facebook

Thus the claims made on this viral picture were found to be false during our investigation.

Related