Twelve Rajya Sabha MPs have been suspended from the ongoing winter session of Parliament for allegedly obstructing the functioning of the Upper House during the last Monsoon session. The suspended MPs are now protesting in front of the Gandhi statue in Parliament.

Amid this, an image has gone viral which shows some members having food behind the statue, while others are sitting in protest at the front. Encircling the first group of people, netizens have taken potshots at the protesting MPs.

advertisement

Sarcastic comments along with the image say MPs on hunger strike are surreptitiously having food behind the Gandhi statue. One such caption in Hindi translates to, "Save India!! Suspended MPs continue their hunger strike how they fool the public!! Even Gandhiji has hung his head in shame."

However, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The MPs have told us they are not on hunger strike.

AFWA probe

AFWA contacted the suspended MPs who were sitting on dharna near the Gandhi statue in Parliament. Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi told AFWA, "Who said we are on hunger strike? We are on a dharna near the Gandhi statue because of the unjust and undemocratic way they have suspended us Are we not supposed to eat during the dharna?"

Trinamool Congress's Dola Sen called the viral post a "conspiracy" by BJP supporters to "defame protesting MPs".

"BJP has failed to control us; they had to revoke the farm laws they are on the back foot and we are gaining acceptance among the masses even after our suspension due to the protest. This is why they want to defame us. This is not a hunger strike, so of course we are having our meals. What is wrong with that? We are sitting here for demonstrations from 10 am to 7 pm regularly," Sen said.

Suspension of MPs

A total of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs from five opposition parties have been suspended from the ongoing winter session of Parliament. The monsoon session, which was held in July and August, was disrupted over issues of farm laws and Pegasus spyware. On August 11, the last day of the monsoon session, proceedings in the Rajya Sabha were disrupted and the Chairman had to adjourn the house.

On November 29, the first day of the winter session, Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi called for the suspension of 12 MPs for "wilfully obstructing" the business of Rajya Sabha on the last day of the monsoon session.

The minister moved a motion under Rule 256 of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States. The motion was passed in the House through a voice vote and the 12 members were suspended for the rest of the winter session.