Remember the internet sensation ‘Kolaveri Di’- the viral song with nonsense lyrics sung by Tamil actor Dhanush, whose tune had captivated millions?

Now, a Coca-Cola commercial in the Turkish language with a familiar tune has gone viral on social media with the claim that 'Kolaveri Di' was a straight lift-up from this “old Turkish advertisement for Coca-Cola”.

Multiple Facebook and Twitter have posted this Turkish commercial and wrote in the caption, “The origin of Kolaveri. Old Turkish advertisement for Coca-Cola from which 'Kolaveri Di' song was picked up”.

advertisement

While some users raised questions about the authenticity of the viral claim, some did believe that 'Kolaveri Di' song was a copy of the Turkish commercial.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral claim is misleading. The Turkish commercial had come four years after the original “Kolaveri Di” song that went viral in 2011.

The viral posts are saved here and here.

AFWA probe

A simple keyword search with the combination of “Turkish Coca-Cola Kolaveri Di” led us to multiple news reports published in May 2015.

Credible news outlets like The Indian Express, BuzzFeed wrote that Coca-Cola has released an ad in Turkey that uses a local cover of the song “Why this Kolaveri Di”.

A website on digital marketing and advertising “ Afaqs” wrote that “Sony Music has licensed one of the biggest viral rages of 2011, 'Kolaveri Di', to Coca-Cola Turkey.”

Another website on advertising “ Campaign India” wrote in 2015, “CocaCola Turkey's new TVC sees a remake of the 2011 Indian track, 'Why This Kolaveri Di'. The Turkish version features singers Sla Gençolu and –zcan Deniz recreating the song. The film went on-air on May 4.”

The video which was claimed by the media houses as a Coca-Cola commercial in Turkey is no longer available in public on the YouTube page of Coca-Cola.

But we have found multiple users had uploaded this commercial on YouTube and Dailymotion in 2015 as a Turkish Coca-Cola commercial.

We cannot independently verify the authenticity of the media reports claiming the video to be of a Coca-Cola commercial.

Tamil actor Dhanush created a buzz and hit the headlines with the song 'Kolaveri Di' in 2011. Composed by Anirudh, Sony Music India uploaded the song on their YouTube channel in 2011.

Thus, it is clear, that “Kolaveri Di”, the song that went viral in the year 2011, is not picked from a commercial that was launched in 2015, four years later.

( With inputs from Adarsh Singh )