With a spike of 96,551 new cases and 1,209 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, India's coronavirus cases tally on Friday (September 11, 2020) crossed the 45-lakh mark.

Around the world, over 150 groups are also independently working on developing a Covid-19 vaccine. Amid this, a social media post claims that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in its guidelines specified the use of Ivermectin drug for prevention and treatment of Covid-19.

advertisement

One such post uploaded on Facebook read, “New guidelines of ICMR for COVID 19 released on 6th August 2020. For prophylaxis Tab. IVERMECTIN 12 mg On Day 1, Day 7 & Day 30 2 hrs after dinner. Followed by every 30 days 1 tab of 12mg till pandemic is over. To be taken by all high risk people & frontline health workers. It reduces severity of disease & fatality in 80-90%.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. ICMR has not issued any such guidelines for the use of Ivermectin tablet. However, the claim is rather a circular by the Uttar Pradesh government which is falsely shared as ICMR guideline.

The archived version of the posts can be seen here, here, and here.

AFWA Probe

Ivermectin has been in use since the 1980s for de-worming and as a treatment against head lice and scabies. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in a report suggested that the medicine can possibly kill SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — in less than 48 hours.

When we searched the ICMR website we couldn’t find any guidelines specifying the usage of Ivermectin tablets for Covid-19 prevention or treatment.



UP govt directs use of Ivermectin drug

A further keyword search led to a few news articles regarding the Uttar Pradesh government circular suggesting Ivermectin for Covid-19 treatment.

According to The Times of India article published on August 8, 2020, the UP government approved the usage of Ivermectin for the prevention and treatment of Covid-19 to individuals, their primary contacts and healthcare workers.

However, we couldn’t find a mention of ICMR prescribing Ivermectin for Covid-19 in any of these articles.

We also found an Uttar Pradesh government circular dated August 6, 2020, specifying the use and dosage of Ivermectin for prevention as well as treatment of Covid-19. The same circular was also uploaded on Twitter by news agency ANI. However, the circular has no mention of ICMR.

advertisement Uttar Pradesh government recommends tablet 'Ivermectin' for prophylaxis in contacts and in health care workers and for treatment of asymptomatic to mild symptomatic #COVID19 patients. pic.twitter.com/XEp75AIRrc — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) August 7, 2020

The specifications regarding the dosage of the drug are similar in both the UP government circular and the viral claim in question. No credible sources reported about ICMR prescribing Ivermectin for Covid-19 prevention or treatment. Also, no other Indian state has reportedly adopted this drug in their fight against Covid-19.

AFWA reached out to Dr Rakesh Kumar Mishra, Director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), one of the agencies at the forefront of fighting Covid-19 in the country, for better clarity on the viral claim.

Speaking to AFWA, Dr Mishra said, “Ivermectin is an FDA-approved broad-spectrum anti-parasitic agent. Some studies suggest it may be inhibitory to Covid-19. Considering that it is already approved by the FDA as anti-parasitic, it can be repurposed. The drug being recommended as a prophylaxis for front line workers is not a bad idea since the pandemic is getting more serious and a government with input from its experts can do it.”

Dr Mishra, however, further said the drug is not strategically and logistically advisable for individuals unless it has gone through proper trials.

Regarding the claim that ICMR has issued a guideline specifying the usage of the drug, Dr Mishra said, “ICMR is still reviewing the medicine. Also, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) is the Indian body that can authorise any medicine and no such guidelines have been issued by CDSCO. ”