Social media is filled with misinformation related to the ongoing Farmer protest and the violence that took place in Delhi on Republic Day. Amidst this, a set of images showing burnt cars are circulating on social media claiming that they are recent images from Delhi. The images are going viral with the backdrop of the violence that took place on Republic Day when the protesting farmers carried out a tractor rally.



The caption of the post mentions, “Latest images from Delhi”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google which led us to results that clarified that the images are not recent and not from Delhi. The images have no connection with the recent violence in Delhi.

Image 1 & 2-

The results led us to an article published by “The Quint” in 2019. According to the report, the pictures were taken in Jammu on February 15, 2019, during a protest against the killing of 40 CRPF personnel in Pulwama in a suicide attack the day before. Both the pictures are credited to news agency Press Trust of India (PTI).

The first image says, “Vehicles set on fire by protestors against the killing of CRPF personnel in the Pulwama terror attack, during a shutdown call given by Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) in Jammu.”

The second image says, “Policemen patrol a street after vehicles set on fire by protestors against the killing of CRPF personnel in the Pulwama terror attack in Jammu.”

Image 3-

We found this image on the website of Associated Press. The caption of the post mentions “A protestor shouts slogans against Thursday’s attack on a paramilitary convoy, in Jammu, India, Friday, Feb.15, 2019. The death toll from a car bombing on the paramilitary convoy in Indian-controlled Kashmir has climbed at least 40, becoming the single deadliest attack in the divided region’s volatile history, security officials said Friday,”. The image was published on February 15, 2019.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above post to be False. Old images showing protests held in Jammu after the Pulwama terror attack are being falsely shared as recent ones from the violence that took place during the farmers protest in Delhi. The viral images on social media date back to 2019 and are of the protests in Jammu after the Pulwama attack.