Rajasthan BJP chief Madan Lal Saini is being trolled online for a history mix-up.

Saini claimed that when Mughal emperor Humayun was on his deathbed, he told his father Babur to respect the cows, Brahmins and women to be able to rule Hindustan.

He is being mocked and reminded that it was Babur who died first and not Humayun.

Humayun passed 25 years later in 1556.

advertisement

BUT DID THE BJP LEADER GET THE HISTORY WRONG?

India Today's Fact Check team dug out Mughal memoirs to study their policy on cow slaughter.

Historians say Saini might have quoted from a 17th century book described as Babur's "Wasaya" or will. According to the experts, it does talk about Babur cautioning his son about cow slaughter. But then, there's a caveat: the book is forged.

Cow in Baburnama

Babur and Humayun existed in the 16th century while the so-called "Wasaya" came during Shah Jehan's reign, historians say.

Experts suggest that the book could have been floated to lend greater power to calls for a total ban on cow slaughter by suggesting that the prohibition was enforced even during the early Mughal rule.

According to historians, Babur's biography, Tuzuk-i-Baburi, has no reference to cow slaughter.

Babur's biography Tuzuk-i-Baburi

It only mentions that the cow is considered a sacred animal in India. It's not therefore clear whether the Mughal emperor banned cow slaughter altogether.

The reign of Babur's son, Humayun, was tumultuous. There is no direct allusion to cow slaughter in Humayun's biography, Humayun Nama, either.

However, a book titled Tezkereh-al-Vakiat written by Jouher, a secret domestic of the emperor, contains private memoirs of the royalty. Later translated by Major Charles Stewart of the British East India Company, Tezkereh-al-Vakiat does throw light on the cow question.

Tezkereh-al-Vakiat written by Jouher

Jouher has cited an incident which reveals Humayun apparently opposed cow slaughter. After driving out his rebellious brother Kamran from Kabul city, states the book, Humayun was offered beef for supper. But the emperor refused to eat it, according to Tezkereh-al-Vakiat.

Oh unfortunate Kamran! Was this the mode of your existence? And did you feed the asylum of chastity on the flesh of cows? ...this is not a fit food even for the devout persons who wait on the tomb of our father. Could not we, his four sons, support his relict as he did? - It quotes Humayun as saying

Though historians doubt translation capabilities of the British officer, there is enough hint that the early Mughal emperors were averse to cow slaughter for beef.

advertisement

During Akbar's reign, there was a strict ban on cow slaughter. This was followed by his son Jehangir and then Shah Jehan as well.

It is well known that emperor Aurangzeb followed a hard line against Hindus. In his book, Faiths Across Time: 5,000 Years of Religious History, author J Gordon Melton has written that Aurangzeb, as a price, desecrated a Jain temple and had a cow to be killed on the sacred premises.

Experts, however, doubt that Aurangzeb would have lifted the ban on cow slaughter enforced by his predecessors.

Even during later Mughal period, there are documented references about the ban.

During Emperor Farrukhsiyar's rule, for instance, there is documentary evidence of a royal trial over accusations of cow slaughter.

There are references though that the ban would be relaxed during Bakr Id.

From our Fact Check, it's clear that the BJP leader was factually incorrect by quoting a forged document. At the same time, it is an established fact that cow slaughter during Mughal period was a strict NO.