A statement attributed to BJP candidate from Bhopal, Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur, is doing rounds on social media.

According to a viral post, Sadhvi said if the BJP comes to power, they will totally ban beef in Goa, North-East and South India.

The post further claimed Sadhvi saying that former Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar died of cancer because he allowed the consumption of beef in Goa and didn't respect gau mata (cow).

advertisement

India Today Anti-Fake News Room (AFWA) couldn't find any such statement made by Sadhvi publicly.

Among many others, Facebook page 'News Today Channel' shared this post that has already been shared more than 500 times.

The quote is also going viral on Twitter.

Pragya Thakur: "Parrikar (Ex CM OF GOA) died of cancer because he allowed the consumption of beef in Goa".



The consumption of cow urine cured my of breast cancer. Parrikar died because he didn’t respect Gau Mata.



https://t.co/FcX5ygLT6t Comrade Of FEKOSLOVAKIA (@Comrade_ind) April 30, 2019

We scanned the internet thoroughly but couldn't find any credible news report regarding this statement. If Sadhvi had made any such controversial statement publicly, it would have been covered by media houses and BJP rivals.

We only found the statement in an article by a website called IndiaScoops. (https://indiascoops.com/will-totally-ban-beef-in-states-like-goa-north-east-if-bjp-comes-to-power-at-the-centre-sadhvi-pragya/). On April 26, the website published an article titled - "Will Totally Ban Beef in States like Goa, North-East, If BJP Comes to Power at the Centre: Sadhvi Pragya".

According to the article, Sadhvi Pragya made these comments during an election campaign in Madhya Pradesh's Sehore.

Immediately in the next sentence, the article mentioned that "these comments were not made before the media, or at a public gathering but in front of a group of followers". There is also an 'Editor's Note' in the article, elaborating on this particular point.

India Today also reached out to Sadhvi Pragya's sister, Upma Singh. She clearly said the viral statement is "baseless". It has been falsely attributed to Sadhvi, she added.

Sadhvi Pragya, an accused in the Malegaon blast case, was in jail for almost nine years from October, 2008, to April, 2017.

She had recently sparked controversy over her remarks on Mumbai Anti-Terrorist Squad chief Hemant Karkare. She boasted that 26/11 hero Karkare died because she had "cursed" him.