Spread the truth:

An image is going viral on Twitter featuring the chairperson of Reliance Foundation, Neeta Ambani and the RSS General Secretary, Dattatreya Hosabale. In the photo, Hosabale is handing a poster of Ram Mandir to Ambani.

Claims: According to claims, Hosabale made the gesture of gifting the Ram Mandir painting to Ambani in order to gain support for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections. The caption with the picture read,

“ राम के नाम पर RSS की गंदी राजनीति! “

Translation: “RSS’s dirty politics in the name of Ram!”

Twitter

archive

See the nexus!!! Ambani & Adani fill their coffers at our taxpayers money. Bozos always are capitalists. pic.twitter.com/MHeWsk6eBS — Ingrid Bergman (@Ingrid_Bergman1) July 27, 2021

अंबानी + आर एस एस = भाजपा

कृपया क्रोनोलॉजी को समझें। अंबानी का परिवार हम पर राज करता है pic.twitter.com/kJsh3JMHJE — अमन आनंद (@AmanAanandINC) August 5, 2021

Truth

The viral image is fake. It has been made by morphing a couple of pictures from two separate occasions together.

We ran a reverse image search on the viral picture. In the results, we found the original one uploaded on a website called the Artists of Nathdwara.

Nita Ambani’s picture has been cut out with the painting and morphed into the viral image. It is flipped, with Ambani standing towards the left-hand side of the viral photo instead of the right, as depicted in the original one. In addition to that, the Pichvai painting in the image is replaced by that of Ram Mandir.

This image is from an event organized at Nathdwara — a small town, 45 km from Udaipur in Rajasthan, in 2016. At the event, Nita Ambani announced the commissioning of 700 paintings from 100 artists from Nathdwara for corporate gifting and to display at various properties of Reliance Industries Limited.

Similarly, to find the origins of Dattatreya Hosabale’s side of the image, we ran another search. This time we cropped only his half and conducted the reverse image search. While looking through the results, we found the original image on websites like Newstrack, Prabha Sakshi and My Times Today. Hosabale’s image was also flipped and added to the viral photo. Also, looking closely, we can see that a thumb has been added to the viral picture, which looks unreal.

Furthermore, another part of the image was a photo frame in the background, with Uttar Pradesh’s Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat’s picture. With a simple google search, we landed at the original image featuring in a Hindustan Times article.

To conclude, look at the following image that visually summarizes the sources of all the parts of the viral photo.

Hence, it is evident that the viral image is fake and made by morphing pictures from two separate occasions together.

Related