Claim: An image with anti- Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and anti-Hindu narrative has been going viral which indicates that a mob of RSS members with saffron scarves and armed with swords are cornering a man who can be seen pleading for his life. The captions along these viral images are calling this an act of Hindu terrorism.

However, this is not a real scenario but a scene from an Indian movie called Parzania which was made in 2005 and is based on the Gujarat riots of 2002.

TWITTER

Several tweets with anti-RSS and anti-Hindu captions were surfacing on twitter. Most of them were tweeted by verified accounts leading to more widespread of the wrong image.

This tweet has been archived here.

One tweet retweeted the above tweet and added,

“#India terrorist group #RSS must be declared as #Terrorists group just like the world did with #ISIS The producer is same has no religion or race. @UN”

The tweet can be seen here and has been archived here.

Khaled Beydoun, Law Professor and Author, tweeted the image with text “The RSS are terrorists. They’ve always been so. Now they control the government in # India “

This tweet can be seen here and has been archived here.

FACEBOOK

Facebook pages against Hindu religion are using this image as profile picture also.

Several websites also used this image to support their articles with an anti-Hindu narrative. Click here and here. These articles were posted in 2018 and 2015 respectively.

TRUTH

This image is a still from 2005 movie Parzania which is based on 2002’s Gujarat riots which can also been seen on IMDb page for the film.

There is also an article published in 2007 by The New York Times titled ‘Using Bollywood Ideas to Portray Today’s India’ which uses the same image with a caption that says ‘A scene from “Parzania,” one of the films playing in the “India Now” festival at the Museum of Modern Art’.

Here is the link of the full film, Parzania from where the scene of a mob with saffron scarves is going viral.

Thus, the image along with anti-RSS captions was misleading as it was a still from an Indian movie and not an actual scenario.