Claim

Yogi Adityanath gives a befitting reply over the Nupur Sharma controversy.

Screenshot of Facebook post by user Subodh Kumar Subodh Kumar

Link to the post can be found here.

Fact

We conducted a keyword search for “हिंदू राष्ट्रीयता का प्रतीक है योगी” on YouTube which led us to a video uploaded by DEPDAN TV NEWS on October 5, 2021. Around 2:40 minutes into the video, we found the viral clip claiming to show Yogi Adityanath giving a “befitting reply on the Nupur Sharma controversy.” We noticed a watermark of Lok Sabha TV on the top left in the video frame.

Screenshot of YouTube video by DEPDAN TV NEWS

Following which, we did a keyword searches for “हिंदू राष्ट्रीयता का प्रतीक है योगी लोक सभा” and “Yogi Hindu Rashtriya Lok Sabha” on YouTube and found a video uploaded on the official YouTube channel of the Bharatiya Janata Party on August 14, 2014 with the caption “Shri Yogi Adityanath on the need for more effective mechanism to deal with communal violence.” At 9:58 minutes into the video, we found the exact portion matching the viral clip.

The description of the video read, “Lok Sabha: Discussion Under Rule 193 on the need for a more effective mechanism to deal with communal violence – Shri Yogi Adityanath.”

Screenshot of YouTube video by Bharatiya Janata Party

The video dates back to 2014 when Yogi Adityanath was an MP from Gorakhpur and addressed the Lok Sabha on the communal violence related issues. Reports on the same can be found here and here.

The viral video further shows AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi trying to interrupt Yogi’s address, who is, however, silenced by the latter and forced back in his seat. But on further research, we found this part of the video to be edited. In the video uploaded by the BJP’s YouTube channel, we found Owaisi questioning the data provided by Yogi on communal riots and is asked by the then deputy speaker Dr M Thambidurai to take his seat. The same can be seen around 14 minutes into the video.

Then Whom Does Yogi Ask To Sit ?

Yogi can be heard asking someone to sit down at around 10:27 minutes- while Owaisi attempts to question the data at around 14 minutes. Asking the person to sit down, Yogi Adityanath can be heard saying in Hindi, “she talks nonsense”, indicating that he is referring to some female parliamentarian.

It is clear that an eight year old video of Yogi addressing Lok Sabha on communal violence has been falsely shared to show him giving a befitting reply over the Nupur Sharma row. In addition, a section of the video is edited to falsely show that Yogi silenced and asked Owaisi to sit down.

Result: False

If you liked this and want to read more such fact checks then click here.

If you would like us to fact-check a claim, give feedback, or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 or email us at checkthis@newschecker.in. You can also visit the Contact Us page and fill out the form.