With more than 13,000 infected cases and 31 deaths in Germany, chancellor Angela Merkel said the novel coronavirus pandemic is the greatest challenge in decades.

The German government has taken the decision to deploy military and close borders.

Hence, panic spreads and there are several reports that people are out in the markets stockpiling their rations.

Amid this, a video of hundreds of people gathered in front of a store and rushing towards it, is doing rounds on social media platforms.

advertisement

Facebook user Holden Evelyn posted the video claiming that thousands are rushing to this store to stock pile their supplies.

Facebook post claiming thousands are rushing to this store to stock pile their supplies

The caption of the YouTube video shared by the Facebook user reads, "#Germany - crowds are rushing in to gather supplies ahead of the pandemic spreading into their communities. This is what you will deal with when tstf and you are not ready. Just think about this too, there could be infected people in that crowd??#Coronavirus."

The archive version of the post can be seen here.

The 15-second YouTube video too claims, 'people pushing each other to reach first and get necessary supplies to stock.'

Several other social media users also claimed that the video is recent and related to novel coronavirus.

#CoronaVirusUpdate

Scenes from Germany!#coronavirus fears in Germany result in large crowds outside a ??????supermarket. People pushing each other to get into store firstmto get necessary supplies . #COVID19 #COVID2019 pic.twitter.com/ouGo5W2Sij Tweety Bird in Quarantine (Avian Flu) (@_____Tweety____) March 1, 2020

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the video to be old and unrelated to the ongoing pandemic.

We broke the video into key frames and reverse searched a few images. Upon reverse searching, we found another YouTube video posted on January 31, 2011. The video has got more than two lakh views.

According to the caption of this video, on January 31, 2011, a special sale was going on for various products like PCs, cell phones, printers etc,. It also reads, "The video has nothing to do with coronavirus."

In the video there is an FBI store adjacent to ALDI. We found a video where it can be seen that both the stores are in Citti Park Mall in Kiel.

The 1-minute-58-second video was shot in Kiel which is the capital of Schleswig-Holstein in north Germany.

The port town is 90 km away from Hamburg. ALDI is a German grocery chain.

We found another video on YouTube where the same store can be located.

Hence, it can be concluded that the claim posted on Facebook is misleading as the video is nine years old and has nothing to do with the novel coronavirus.