Among the more bizarre sights on the internet this week was a video of a bunch of cars driving over the Indian flag taped to the road, all the while cheered by people carrying Pakistan’s flag.

Bizarre as the sight was, the claim alongside it was questionable. Those sharing the video said this scene was from Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu.

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the video in question was not from Tamil Nadu, but from Karachi, Pakistan.

Geolocating the video

As mentioned earlier, one can see many people holding the Pakistani flag in this video. At three minutes 38 seconds of the video, we noticed a white van with “The Hunar Foundation ” written on it.

According to the website of The Hunar Foundation, the organisation is based out of Karachi and focuses on providing technical training in Pakistan.

This indicated that the video was likely from Pakistan. There were other such clues. For example, the rickshaws seen in the video do not look similar to the ones seen on the Tamil Nadu roads.

We also noticed in the video that most four-wheelers had yellow licence plates. Karachi-based journalist Tauseef Razi Mallick told India Today that in Pakistan, yellow licence plates were found in the Sindh province, whose capital is Karachi.

At the start of the video, we noticed the signboard of a shop with “Sanam'' written on it. When we searched for shops named Sanam in Karachi, we came across a “Sanam Boutique” whose font and design looked similar to the one in the video. According to this site, the boutique is located in Tariq Road, Delhi Mercantile Society in Karachi.

YouTube video of Tariq Road in Karachi, we came across the same Sanam Boutique as seen in the viral clip. In a 2017in Karachi, we came across the same Sanam Boutique as seen in the viral clip.

The Google Maps Street View of Tariq Road can be seen below.

Is this video from a recent protest?

We found that the same video or screenshots from it have been in circulation on the internet since at least March 2020. In the video, a number of people can be seen wearing masks. This indicates that the video is likely not from before the Covid-19 pandemic.

So, while we weren’t able to pinpoint the date of the video or why this event took place, we could say with certainty that this video was from Karachi, Pakistan — not Tamil Nadu.