Emotions are running high in France ever since a teacher was beheaded on the streets of Paris for showing cartoons of Prophet Mohammad in one of his classes.

Amid this, a video of a man holding the Quran and saying it is the "root of all evil" is circulating on social media with the claim that it is a scene from the French Parliament. The man goes on to say that the Quran is the "cause of a lot of misery" and "a license to kill".

advertisement

The caption along with one such video says, "Discussion on Quran in French Parliament....."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim with the video to be misleading. The video is more than five years old and from the Belgian Parliament. The man making the statement is Filip Dewinter, a leader of right-wing Vlaams Belang.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, here, here and here.

Tracing the viral video

Using InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found that the video in question is from a session held on January 22, 2015, at Belgium's federal parliament in Brussels.

We found a longer version of the same video uploaded on January 22, 2015, by "Zoomin.TV Nederland". The title in Dutch translates to, "Quran is the source of all evil according to Dewinter of Vlaams Belang".

Taking a cue from this, we searched the Internet further and found news reports from January 2015 on the Parliament speech by Filip Dewinter of Vlaams Belang (vlaamsbelang.org), a Flemish nationalist and right-wing political party in Belgium.

According to reports, Dewinter made the statement during a session on "mosques and radicalisation" in the Belgian parliament and argued that the government must stop financing mosques.

We also found a picture of Dewinter holding the Quran, published by "Middle East Eye" and "Getty Images", crediting it to international news agency AFP.

"Filip Dewinter holds the Quran - which he said was 'the source of all evil' - during a speech at the Chamber at the federal parliament, in Brussels, on 22 January 2015", reads the image description of "Middle East Eye".

Therefore, it is clear that the viral video is not from France but Belgium and it is more than five years old.