A day after the tragic crash of Ethiopian Airlines aircraft Boeing 737, a video went viral on Facebook showing panicked passengers inside the plane wearing oxygen masks. The Facebook post claimed it to be from the moment before the plane crashed.

On March 10, Boeing 737 MAX 8 aircraft operated by Ethiopian Airlines crashed with 157 passengers on board while flying from Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa to the Kenyan capital Nairobi.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is not of the same Ethiopian Airlines plane that crashed on Sunday.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

A Facebook user named bbmtv1.com posted the video with captioned: "Horrific footage showing panic onboard #EthiopianAirlines, moments before it crashed." In this 55-second video, passengers can be seen wearing yellow oxygen masks while air hostesses walking down the aisles assisting them.

The video was viewed more than one lakh times and shared by over 1,500 people at the time of filing this story. Facebook user DJ Power Mixtape Blog also posted the video with the same claim. This post is also circulating on several WhatsApp groups.

In the viral video, passengers are seen with oxygen masks. Usually, oxygen masks descend automatically when the plane loses cabin pressure over an altitude of 14,000 feet.

According to media reports, the fatal aircraft with flight number ET302 had climbed just over 8,000 feet, which is not high enough for oxygen masks to drop down automatically.

However, the video has been shot in one of the Ethiopian Airlines flight only. It can be proven at three seconds of the video when one of the passengers leans forward, revealing the distinctive green, yellow and red wing logo of the airline on the headrest of his seat.

But the question remains whether it is the same flight that crashed on March 10? The answer lies in the video itself. In the video, the window blinds can be seen open showing dark outside. Flight ET302 that crashed took off from Addis Ababa at 8.38am (local time), which means there should have been proper daylight visible outside the window.

It is also found that some of the passengers have their tray-tables down with food on it. The Boeing 737 crashed just six minutes after take-off. It is not possible for any airline to serve food to passengers so soon.

Talking about the technical aspect, when we searched about Boeing 737 Max 8 on the Internet, we found that it has two rows of seats with three seats on each side and an aisle in the middle. However, in the viral video, two aisles are visible which confirm that it is a bigger aircraft and not the Boeing 737 Max 8.

These details and the fact that all passengers aboard the flight died in the crash left no chance for any original video to come out proves that the video is not of the fatal Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737. The French fact-checking website The Observers has also debunked this video.