A strong earthquake jolted Tajikistan in central Asia at around 10:30 pm on February 12, 2021. The country was hit by an earthquake of magnitude 6.3 and tremors were also felt in several parts of Northern India including Delhi-NCR.

Now, two pictures of critically damaged buildings have gone viral on social media. It is being said that the pictures are from Tajikistan, taken after the earthquake struck the country.

advertisement

The claim, which is viral on Facebook has been shared by more than a thousand people on the social networking site.

Several netizens have also posted the photos on Twitter. The caption to one of these posts reads "#Shocking Tajikistan after earthquake".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the viral post to be misleading. While one of the pictures was clicked in Turkey, the other one is from Italy when earthquakes shook these countries in 2020 and 2018, respectively.

Archive of the viral post can be seen here.

AFWA Investigation

Let's look at the truth about both the pictures separately.

Picture 1

With the help of reverse image search, we found several news reports regarding this picture. According to a CNBC news report, the picture was clicked after a massive earthquake of magnitude 6.8 struck eastern Turkey on January 24, 2020.

The earthquake killed at least 36 people and damaged several buildings. The quake rattled the Elazig province of Turkey.

Picture 2

This picture of a damaged house is from the Italian island of Sicily, clicked after an earthquake of magnitude 4.8 hit the region in December 2018. It was reported that the earthquake was triggered by the eruption from Mount Etna volcano.

At least 28 people were injured in the quake and some buildings were damaged. The viral picture was also carried in a news report on BBC.

Though the viral post with both the pictures do show the destruction caused by an earthquake, it has nothing to do with the quake that hit Tajikistan on the night of February 12. The pictures are old and from Turkey and Italy.

Also, no major damage or casualties have been reported in Tajikistan until the filing of this story.