A video montage of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi is going viral on social media with the claim that with Amit Shah as home minister, he is now pleading for help. Akbaruddin is the leader of opposition in Telangana assembly and the younger brother of AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi.

The viral post is a collage of two videos the first of his controversial statements from 2013 threatening Hindus and the second in which he is seen praying for the well-being of Muslims. The second video is claimed to be from 2019.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the second video is actually from 2014, much before Amit Shah became Home minister. Akbaruddin was actually praying for Palestinian and Indian Muslims before Iftaar at an event in Mumbai.

The video

Facebook page ModiNama’ uploaded the video with a caption in Hindi that translates to, What has happened since Amit Shah became Home minister?

The post has a montage of two videos. The first video is from 2013 in which Akbaruddin made the controversial statement, We (Muslims) are 25 crores and they (Hindus) are 100 crores. Remove police for just 15 minutes and see how the numbers turn out after that.

In the second video, Akbaruddin is seen holding up his hands and in a pleading voice says, O Allah! Bless and protect the Muslims of India. We are upset. Please listen to our prayers. We don’t have any strength and we are turning to you.

In the viral video, interspersed with Akbaruddin’s voice, are voices of other people saying Ameen. Till the filing of this story, the post was shared more than 8,000 times. The archived version can be seen here.

Many Facebook and Twitter users have shared the video with similar claims.

AFWA methodology

The first video from 2013 is true and a case was registered against Akbaruddin for making inflammatory speech. He was also sent to jail. There are multiple news reports on Internet regarding the incident.

We therefore took a frame from the second video and did a reverse search which took us to some pages such as 4tvHyd.com which said the video was from Akbaruddin’s Maharashtra visit in 2014. The news clipping states that Akbaruddin had visited many places in and around Mumbai. He had also sought permission to hold an Iftaar at Haj House but was denied, and therefore, he held it at a hotel in Mumbai Central.

With keywords, we searched the Internet and found multiple videos of the event wherein he is seen praying right before breaking fast during Ramzan in July 2014. Those very persons, seen sitting next to Akbaruddin in the viral video, can be seen in these videos as well.

advertisement

Amit Shah became Home minister of India on June 1, 2019.

We also reached out to Akbaruddin who confirmed, Both these videos are old. In the second video, I was only praying before Iftaar in Mumbai.

Therefore, it is clear that both the videos in the viral post are old and have nothing to do with Amit Shah becoming Home minister in 2019.

READ | Fact Check: Republican Congressman targets Obama on Iran with morphed image

READ | Fact Check: Were these animals rescued from the Australian bush fires?