In a bid to further intensify the ongoing agitation, farmer leaders have decided to invite labourers and women to join the protests in Delhi if the Centre does not agree to repeal the three new farm laws before December 19.

Amid this, a video of people raising pro-Pakistan and pro-Khalistan slogans is doing the rounds on social media. It is being said that the video is of people protesting in London in support of the farmers' agitation in India. A few men in the group can also be seen wearing turbans.

advertisement

The caption in Hindi to one such video translates as, "Slogan of Allahu Akbar raised in London by supporters of farmers. But don't call them Khalistani, because they produce our food."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false. This video is from a 2019 anti-Modi rally held in New York City, US.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA PROBE

With the help of reverse image search of the video keyframes, we found that the same video was uploaded in November 2019 by multiple social media handles. The Facebook page of a Pakistani media organisation, Daily Jiddat Karachi, had also uploaded the same video.

The posts confirmed that the video is more than a year old and not related to the ongoing farmers' protest against the new farm laws in India.

We also found the same video was shared on the verified social media handles of Pakistan's Senior Minister of Punjab and Minister of Food, Abdul Aleem Khan. It was also shared on Pakistani news website Siasat.pk's Twitter account with the claim that the video is from America.

While closely observing the video, we noticed a US flag in one of the placards held by the protesters. Prime Minister Modi's name is also superimposed on this placard.

When we searched for protests held in the US against the Indian government in 2019, we came across multiple videos on Twitter from an anti-Modi rally held in New York last year.

According to a report by Al Jazeera, on September 29, 2019, thousands of people rallied outside the United Nations in New York, demanding human rights in Kashmir. This took place after the Kashmir crisis did not find any mention in PM Modi's speech at the UN General Assembly on September 27.

advertisement

Stock image website Getty images also shared pictures from the anti-Modi rally held in New York. In these pictures, we were able to find placards similar to the ones held by protestors in the viral video.

Here is a comparison of the viral video with the 2019 anti-Modi rally held in New York.



Thus, it is clear that the viral video showing men raising pro-Pakistan and pro-Khalistan slogans is from an anti-Modi rally held in New York in 2019 and is not related to the ongoing farmers' protest at the Delhi border.