A photo of a tweet is being shared widely on social media with a claim that Dr Mujahid Hussain has been removed by the AYUSH Ministry for blocking the approval of ‘Coronil’, the medicine proposed by Patanjali company for COVID-19. The original tweet can be found here (archived). It is being shared in the context of a recent statement by the AYUSH ministry that it has not yet approved any such medicine and asked the company to provide the details regarding the medicine. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post

The archived version of the post can be found here.

Claim: The AYUSH Ministry has removed their official Dr Mujahid Hussain for blocking the approval of Patanjali’s ‘Coronil’. Fact: The Ministry has clarified that they have not removed any doctor or medical officer from duty or service at any time in the recent past. The Press Information Bureau has tweeted that the post is fake. Also, FACTLY could not find any official with that name on the AYUSH website. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

When searched for the information given in the post, it was found that the AYUSH Ministry has already issued a clarification regarding the issue. The Ministry has posted on its official Facebook and Twitter accounts that ‘the Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India, has not removed any doctor or medical officer from duty or service at any time in the recent past’. It has also posted the picture of the same tweet in its clarification. The Press Information Bureau has tweeted that the post is fake. Also, FACTLY could not find any official with the name (‘Mujahid Hussain’) on the Ministry’s website

In a recent update to the ‘Coronil’ issue, Acharya Balkrishna (M.D. of Patanjali Ayurved Ltd) has tweeted the photo of a letter that they received from the AYUSH Ministry, in which the Ministry has said that it will verify the documents for validation of the data related to the research.

To sum it up, the AYUSH Ministry has not removed any doctor or medical officer from duty or service in relation to the ‘Coronil’ issue.

Did you watch our new video?