A picture is widely being shared on social media, showing huge cash on the floor with an empty bag and people around it.

The picture claims that it is from China’s Henan Hospital, where a cancer patient came to the doctor with a bag full of notes, and asked him to save her life. After the doctor informed her that nothing can be done, she threw the cash all over the hospital.

The caption in Hindi reads: “ये तस्वीर चायनीज़ हेनन हॉस्पिटल में ली गई है जिसमें एक कैंसर की मरीज नोटों से भरा बैग लेकर डॉक्टर के पास आई और उसने डॉक्टर से कहा- मेरी जिंदगी बचाएँ। मेरे पास और भी बहुत दौलत है तुम्हें देने के लिए लेकिन जब डॉक्टर ने बताया- अब उसका इलाज मुमकिन नहीं है क्योंकि उसका कैंसर लास्ट स्टेज पर है और अब डाक्टर्स उसकी जिंदगी नहीं बचा सकते। तो वह बहुत गुस्सा हुई और पागलों की तरह चीखते हुए पूरे हॉस्पिटल के बरामदे में नोटों को फेंकती गई और बोलती रही- “क्या फ़ायदा इस दौलत का जो मेरी जान नहीं बचा सकती।” क्या फ़ायदा इतना अमीर होने का, ये दौलत मुझे सेहत नहीं दे सकती। ये दौलत जिंदगी नहीं दे सकती। इसलिए दोस्तों भाग-दौड़ वाली इस ज़िन्दगी में सिर्फ पैसे कमाने में व्यस्त ना रहे,अपने स्वास्थ्य,अपने परिवार और मित्रो के साथ देश धर्म के लिये समय निकाल लिया करो,ये जीवन दोबारा नही मिलेगा रुपयों का ढेर कुछ काम नही आएगा,,

इस लिए आज से ही अपने स्वास्थ और अपनो का ध्यान रखो”

(English translation: This picture was taken in the Chinese Henan Hospital, where a cancer patient came to the doctor with a bag full of notes, and asked to save her life. I have more money to give you, she said. But when the doctor said the treatment was not possible, because the cancer was in the last stage, she got very angry and screamed like crazy. Then she threw notes on the whole hospital verandah, saying: “What is the use of this wealth, which cannot save my life? What is the use of being so rich when this wealth cannot give me health? This wealth cannot give life. So, friends, in this run-of-the-mill life, don’t be busy just earning money, take out time for your health, country, religion, time for your family and friends. This life will not be available again, and money will not be of any use. So, take care of your health and your loved ones from today itself)

The above post can be seen here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim attached with the picture, and found it to be false.

On putting the picture through Reverse Image Search, we came across several articles from 2016, describing the same story. However, we did not find any authentic source to corroborate the viral claim.

We also came across a news article in ETtoday, dated July 5, 2014 — a Chinese media outlet — which carried the same picture. According to the report, the picture in question was originally shared by Doctor Niu on the Chinese social media website Weibo.

The report suggested that a man came to see his girlfriend, who is a nurse, at the Harbin hospital, and an argument took place between the two. Finally, the young man opened the bag and threw away all the money. The security personnel arrived to calm down the scene, but this video went viral on social media.

Since Weibo is banned in India 2020 onwards, NewsMobile cannot independently access and verify the original post.

Hence, it is certain that the picture in question is quite old, and has resurfaced with misleading claims.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news