A viral cartoon on social media claims to depict the state of the Indian media today. Having a caricature that resembles Prime Minister Narendra Modi, text superimposed on the viral post says it was drawn by American cartoonist Ben Garrison.

Many Facebook users have shared the cartoon, titled “Lipstick on a Pig”, which shows some piglets feeding from a pig. While the piglets have names of news channels on them, the face of the pig resembles that of PM Modi. Behind, a dog is seen with “Bhagwat” written on it. Text superimposed on the post says, “American cartoonist Ben Garrison’s depiction of the state of Indian media today”.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral image to be morphed. It was not created by American cartoonist Ben Garrison. His original work, titled “Lipstick on a Pig”, depicted Hillary Clinton and her alleged crimes. Garrison has denied making any cartoon on the Indian media.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse image search, we found this cartoon has been circulating on the Internet since 2017.

Three years back, several users had tweeted the viral image as well. We found the original cartoon was tweeted by its creator, Ben Garrison, on March 8, 2016.

Lipstick on a Pig, New Ben Garrison Cartoon https://t.co/kIeM31QIv0 pic.twitter.com/RKZNcg05r1— GrrrGraphics Cartoons (@GrrrGraphics) March 8, 2016

In his tweet, the cartoonist had given a weblink, where he wrote in details that his creation of “Lipstick on a Pig” was targeted at Hillary Clinton.

Comparing the two cartoons, it is evident that the viral one is morphed.

Viral image

Original image

In September 2017, several Twitter users had posted the viral image and asked Garrison if it was fake.

Garrison, in a reply tweet on October 23, 2017, said, “No- I have never drawn any cartoons on India politics- there are some cartoons with my sig going around- Not mine”.

The entire works of Garrison can be on his website, here.

Earlier, another cartoon on Indian politics had gone viral, falsely attributing it to Ben Garrison. We do not know who exactly created the morphed image, but it is confirmed that the viral post with the cartoon referring to Indian media has been falsely attributed to the American cartoonist,

(Inputs from Srijit Das)