Love jihad is back in Indian social media discourse after a recent incident involving a Chennai woman who was reportedly kidnapped and converted by her Bangladeshi lover from London.

On social media, a collage of two images — one of a woman, and the other showing her burnt and disfigured face — is going viral, with accompanying claims hinting that she is a Hindu girl who was attacked by her Muslim lover.

advertisement

An Instagram user posted the picture collage with a claim in Hindi which translates to, “#lovejihad she said her partner was not like the others. Hindu sisters, there is still time, stay away from these people. Jai Shri Ram”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim in the post to be misleading. The girl seen in the viral picture is a Muslim, who was attacked by a white man in London in 2017.

Many Twitter users have also shared the collage with claims of love jihad. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Using reverse search, we found the viral collage in a photo gallery of “The Times of India”.

The photo gallery was about Reshma Khan, an aspiring model, who along with her cousin Jameel Mukhtar, was attacked by a white man named John Tomlin on June 21, 2017 in Beckton, London. It was Reshma’s 21st birthday. John threw acid on the two as they were waiting in their car in traffic.

A BBC report says that in 2018, John was jailed for 16 years after he “admitted intentionally causing the pair grievous bodily harm”.

John Tomlin

The incident was widely covered by the international media. As per news website “Independent”, Reshma’s cousin Jameel said that the attack on them was the result of growing Islamophobia in London.

A few months later, Reshma shared some of her pictures of recovery on social media. Her recent photos can be seen on her Twitter and Instagram accounts.

Reshma Khan

Therefore, it can be concluded that the love jihad claim along with the girl’s disfigured face is false. The acid attack victim was a Muslim, who was attacked by a white man in London.