A video of a discussion between a TV moderator and a guest about the Narendra Modi-led Indian government is going viral on social media with the claim that "even Pakistan know the truth about India (sic)".

In the eight-and-a-half-minute long video, the speaker is criticising the former UPA government and alleges that Hindus faced discrimination in India. The caption of the post reads, "Even Pakistan know the Truth about India. #SatyamevaJayate Pakistan Media on India (sic)."

advertisement

The video also has a news ticker running with the text: "Pakistan Media On India".

The archived versions of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claim, along with the video, is misleading. This clip is from a talk show on 'TAG TV', a USA and Canada-based TV channel, founded by Tahir Aslam Gora. Gora is a Pakistan-born journalist with Canadian citizenship.

AFWA probe

We did a reverse image search of the frames of the viral video and found a longer version of the video that was uploaded on a verified YouTube channel, 'TAG TV'.

The video was uploaded on November 18, 2020, with the title: "Arif Aajakia Exclusive Talk with Tahir Gora on Mumbai 26/11 Terror Attack - UK Talk Show".

The viral clip is a chunk from the original version that begins at around eight minutes. Also, the original video has no news ticker reading "Pakistan Media On India".

According to the video, the name of the presenter is Tahir Aslam Gora, and the guest speaker has been identified as Arif Aajakia.

The channel has uploaded multiple videos on the Indian government (TAG TV - YouTube) and the importance of saving Hindu faith (TAG TV - YouTube) and Dharma.

Is "TAG TV" a Pakistani channel?

We found the website as well as the Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn accounts of "TAG TV".

According to the details on these platforms, 'TAG TV' is a USA and Canada-based TV channel operating from Canada. It was founded in 2014 by Canadian-Pakistani journalist Tahir Aslam Gora.

Tahir Aslam Gora

A further Google search about Tahir Aslam Gora led us to his Twitter handle. His Twitter bio confirms that he is the CEO of TAG TV. He has tweeted multiple times in support of India and Hindus.

In his personal blog, Gora identifies himself as a "Canadian writer, journalist, and broadcaster". Gora, who moved to Canada in 1999, had also participated in Canada's Federal Elections 2019 as a candidate of the right-wing party, The Peoples' Party of Canada.

advertisement

In an interview with Indian journalist Dewang Bhatt, Gora had said, "Now I'm a Canadian Punjabi of Indian heritage born in political Pakistan."

Arif Aajakia

Aajakia, according to his Twitter bio, is a "Human Rights & Social Media activist & YouTuber".

In Aajakia's pinned tweet, it says that he currently lives in the UK. While Aajakia was born in Pakistan, he has been a French citizen for the last 25 years.

Many people asking therefore.

I am Pakistan born, French Citizen of Indian origin, living in UK.

My father was born in Ajak, Gujarat (thats why we are Aajakia) & mother in Bantva, Gujarat. Am French Citizen since 25 years, Pakistani since 72 years & Indian since 1000s of years pic.twitter.com/mDz2VsbKyx — Arif Aajakia (@arifaajakia) July 6, 2020

In his personal blog (Arif Aajakia - Human Rights Activists), Ajakia describes himself as a "Muslim who loves Bharat, Muslim who praises Sanatana, Muslim who fights for Dharma".

There are multiple videos about India and Sanatana on Aajakia's YouTube channel. We also found multiple video interviews of Aajakia on 'TAG TV', particularly on subjects related to India. Aajakia, a vocal critic of Pakistan's legal framework and its army, is currently in exile from Pakistan.

advertisement

In 2019, activist Shehla Rashid demanded an apology from broadcaster Prasar Bharati over the telecast of Aajakia's footage from 'TAG TV' where he allegedly claimed Rashid had appreciated the December 2001 attack on Parliament.

It is thus clear that the video in question is from a Canada-based TV channel that has produced multiple videos in support of the Indian government, and not from a channel in Pakistan.