Many people took to the streets in Afghanistan against the Taliban takeover of the country. According to reports, several died, and many were injured after Taliban fighters opened fire on the protesters in several provinces.

A 17-minute-27-second video is viral on social media with the claim that the Afghanistan forces were engaged in a crossfire with the Taliban fighters.

One such post, which has garnered more than 723K views until the time of filing this story, can be seen below.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. This video is from Syria and is at least seven years old.

AFWA probe

In the beginning of the video, one can see flags that resemble that of Syria and Iraq’s painted on the shutter of a building. Between the mark of 6:19 to 6:23 in the video, the text reads “More reinforcements arrive to help in the battle for Al-Ramouseh District”.

Al-Ramouseh is a suburb in south Aleppo, Syria. We can also notice a watermark ‘WAR CLASHES’ on the screen throughout the video.

Taking a cue from this, we did a reverse search of the keyframes from the video with appropriate keywords and found similar visuals published by multiple media reports dating back to 2014.

We found a longer version of the same video on a YouTube channel named ‘WarClashes’ on April 20, 2014. The headline to the video reads, ‘Heavy Clashes During The Battle For Al-Ramouseh Aleppo | Syria War 2014’.

On a further search, we also found same visuals published by Al Jazeera on their Arab language website on April 12, 2014.

According to this report, the video shows an armed Syrian opposition force in Aleppo seizing the buildings surrounding the Air Force Intelligence headquarters in Aleppo, after battles with the regime forces.

This Al Jazeera video also shows the logo of Ahl al-Sham, which was an Aleppo-based joint command structure and umbrella organisation of four main Syrian opposition factions.

A multiple-window comparison of the visuals from the viral video and the one carried by Al Jazeera can be seen below.

In 2014, visuals from the same video were also shared by multiple other sites reporting the conflict in Syria's Aleppo.

Aleppo used to be Syria's largest city, with about 2.3 million people living there, until the civil war between the Syrian government led by President Bashar al-Assad and a group of rebels. It was also the country's centre for industry and finance.

advertisement

It is, however, clear that the video in question is from Syria, not Afghanistan and it is at least seven years old.

All fact check stories around Afghanistan by AFWA can be accessed here.

The world watched helplessly as #Taliban took over #Afghanistan, trampling upon #HumanRights and enforcing their strict version of #Sharia. But not every news coming out of the information black hole is true. #AFWACheck busts fake claims surrounding the #Afghanistancrisis.

(1/n) — India Today Fact Check (@AFWACheck) August 20, 2021