Was Charanjit Singh Channi, the new chief minister of Punjab, a singer before he joined politics?

An image of a young man in a gaudy outfit, coloured hair and earrings has gone viral with the claim that this was Channi in his early days a Punjabi singer, before he became a politician.

“Singer Charanjit Channi” and “Tere Honge Chandriye Phere” are printed on the image. What looks like a logo of “Anand” can also be seen apart from some text in Punjabi.

advertisement

Multiple Facebook users have posted the image with captions like, “Meet the current CM of Punjab”, “Old pic of new CM of Punjab” and “New CM of Punjab, memories of youth”.

However, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture is of the Punjab CM’s namesake who was a singer. The viral image is the cover of singer Charanjit Channi’s Punjabi album “Tere Honge Chandriye Phere” recorded by Anand Music in 2004. The Punjab CM was never a singer before joining politics.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

CHARANJIT CHANNI, THE SINGER

Searching the Internet using keywords “Tere Honge Chandriye Phere” and “Charanjit Channi”, we found the same song along with many other Punjabi songs on a YouTube video uploaded by “Anand Music” in October 2018.

We spoke to a spokesperson of Anand Music regarding the album and showed him the viral image. The spokesperson confirmed through messages that the viral image is of their album “Tere Honge Chandriye Phere” sung by Charanjit and the album was released on January 13, 2004.

AFWA then reached out to Charanjit’s family. His son Karandeep confirmed to us that the viral image is from his father’s album “Tere Honge Chandriye Phere”. We reached out to Charanjit, who now resides in the Philippines, on WhatsApp.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Kiwi batsman Finn Allen’s tweet mocking security in Pakistan is morphed

Confirming his credentials, Charanjit said the song was recorded in the early 1990s. “I cannot remember the exact year, but this is the picture of my album Tere Honge Chandriye Phere,” he said.

This particular album by Charanjit is also available on online music streaming services like Gaana and JioSaavn.

We also found Charanjit’s interview on a Punjabi YouTube channel called “NewsNumber” uploaded in January 2019.

EARLY LIFE OF PUNJAB CM CHANNI

As reported by mainstream media, newly appointed Punjab CM Charanjit Channi was born in Chamkaur Sahib in 1963. On the other hand, the family of singer Charanjit Channi confirmed that he

was born in Shahkot in Jalandhar district.

We found from these reports that the Punjab CM had a penchant for handball. He’d represented Panjab University in handball and received accolades for the same. But we could not find any credible content that confirms that he was ever a professional singer in his early days.