According to reports, around 18 lakh admit cards for NEET and JEE have been downloaded despite protests for postponement of these exams, scheduled next month amid the pandemic.

And now, after initial flipflops, and a dose of fake news on social media, the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) too has been postponed. Initially, it was supposed to be held on September 7, but according to an August 28 notification, it has now been postponed to September 28.

advertisement

Earlier, a viral claim on social media said CLAT was postponed, which was refuted by none other than the Consortium of National Law Universities, which conducts the exam. CLAT is a centralised national-level entrance test for admissions to India’s law universities.

A parody Twitter account of journalist Arnab Goswami had made the claim, but many on social media shared it, believing the information to be true.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) had found the claim to be false. The Consortium of National Law Universities had then said the exam would be held as per schedule.

Till the filing of this story, the claim was retweeted more than 2,200 times. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

We noticed that several social media users had raised questions over the claim in the comment section. Some had also posted a notice purportedly issued by the Consortium of National Law Universities. Some such posts can be seen here and here.

Taking this as clue, we searched for latest notifications issued by the Consortium. We found it had issued a circular terming the viral notice as fake. It said the exam date of CLAT 2020 has not been altered.

On August 10, the Consortium had issued a notification on its official website, saying the exam would be held on September 7.

Several news websites have also confirmed that CLAT would be held on September 7 as scheduled.

Therefore, we could confirm that the viral claim of postponement of CLAT was completely baseless.

Update: After the publishing of this report, the date of CLAT 2020 was actually postponed. The Consortium of National Law Universities has issued a new notification on August 28 in this regard. Now, this examination would be conducted on September 28 in place of September 7. This story has been updated according to the new information.