A video is spreading widely on social media in which some people are seen pelting stones at a house and some security personnel are trying to disperse these people. Through this video, it is being claimed that this clip is from West Bengal, where the workers of Bharatiya Janata Party pelted stones recently. Individuals seen in the viral clip can be heard chanting slogans of Jai Shri Ram and some people can be seen holding the BJP flag. The title of the post reads

“Agar kisaan Delhi mein danga phaila rahe hai, to kya BJP Bengal mein shaanti ki sthaapana karane par lage huee hai.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Crescendo found that the video is from Telangana where BJP activists pelted stones at an MLA’s house.

We started the investigation by monitoring this video closely, and we noticed a police car near the people who pelted stones. “Warangal Police” was written on the car.

Thereafter, we searched further with related keywords by using the word ‘Warangal’ on Google, which led us to a news report published by The Hindustan Times on 1st February 2021. On January 31st , 39 BJP workers were detained by the police for attacking the residence of Parkal TRS MLA Challa Dharma Reddy.

The TRS MLA had allegedly commented that BJP workers were collecting funds under the pretence of running a donation campaign for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.

Archive Link

According to a report published in The News Minute on 1st February 2021, 53 BJP workers were detained by the police on 31st January for attacking the residence of Parkal TRS (Telangana Rashtra Samithi) MLA Challa Dharma Reddy. According to the news, this incident is from Telangana. The report further stated that activists were furious at Dharma Reddy’s remarks when he addressed a meeting three days before the incident. According to news reports, the TRS MLA had asked why should the people of Telangana donate for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya when they already had a temple in Bhadra Chalam.

Archive Link

Conclusion: After checking the facts, we found the above post partially incorrect, it is true that stone pelting was done by BJP activists, but this stone pelting occurred in Telangana, not in Bengal. Stone pelting took place at an MLA’s house in Telangana due to a controversy that arose after he commented about the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.