There are always stories that inspire. And then there are some that inspire even with an apparent falsehood in them. Here’s such a story from West Bengal that started out with a fact check and ended in a whole new inspiration.

With various board results being declared, a motivating post is doing the rounds on social media showing a photo of a young boy who appears to be a cobbler, along with a copy of a marksheet of one Sanjoy Rabidas from West Bengal.

advertisement

It is being claimed in the post that despite working as a cobbler during the day, Rabidas, an RSS member, obtained 93% marks in West Bengal Board of Secondary Education (WBBSE). It is also said in some posts that Sanjoy lost his father too.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the marksheet of Sanjoy Rabidas is two years old when he passed Class 10 board examination from WBBSE with 66% marks, and not 93%.

It is true, however, that Sanjoy is a cobbler and has lost his father. Also, he told India Today that he is not associated with the RSS or any political party.

Believing it to be a recent event, netizens congratulated Sanjoy and extended him their best wishes. The post has been shared in the thousands on social media.

Similar posts about this boy have been circulating on the Internet for the last 10 days.

The archived version of one of the viral posts can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Using reverse search, we found an article on The Youth about the inspirational story of Sanjoy Rabidas. The article published in June 2018 says despite having poor background and facing difficulties, cobbler Sanjoy Rabidas managed to score 465 marks in his Class 10 examination in West Bengal.

Sanjoy hails from Chanchal town which is in Malda district of West Bengal, said the article. He studied at Kanua High School.

The story of Sanjoy was also covered by Prabhat Khabar in 2018.

The marksheet in circulation clearly shows the year ‘2018’.

We found the profile of Sanjoy Rabidas on Facebook and reached out to him. He confirmed his photo and marksheet in the viral post, and that he works as a cobbler in Chanchal town.

Sanjoy said the marksheet and the photo is two years old when he scored 66% (465/700) in Class 10 in 2018. “It is true that I have lost my father,” Sanjoy said. But he denied the claim that he is a RSS member.

The twist in the tale

advertisement

The posts that have been circulating for the last 12 days claimed that Sanjoy scored 93%. The coincidence is that Sanjoy had appeared for Class 12 examination from West Bengal board this year, the results of which were declared today (July 17), and he scored above 95 percentile.

However, the viral posts are still misleading as they were shared some 10-12 days ago and at that time, the West Bengal board didn’t declare Class 12 board results.

Conclusion

Hence, the viral post is not completely true. The marksheet shown in the post is two years old. Secondly, he scored 66%, and not 93%, as mentioned in the post. However, Sanjoy’s story is undoubtedly inspiring as he scored above 66% in Class 10 and over 95 percentile in Class 12 after experiencing hardships.