A newspaper clipping that shows a Hindi write-up purportedly detailing a new policy of the Madhya Pradesh government, wherein separate liquor shops would be set up catering exclusively to women customers, is going viral on social media platforms.

Several Facebook users shared the image of the newspaper report. One such post by a user ‘All India advocates & judges’ has been shared over 13,000 times.

MP Government’s New Excise Policy

The claims come in the backdrop of the new excise policy of the state which effectively brings down the prices of liquor. The decision drew staunch criticism from BJP’s own Uma Bharti, in addition to strong reactions from the opposition. In a series of tweets, dated April 1, Bharati lashed out at the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government over reduction in liquor prices in the state saying, “Today we have implemented a new liquor policy in Madhya Pradesh. The new rules aim to ensure more alcohol is available to people and more liquor is served at liquor shops. The rules are being opposed by the women of the state.”

1. कल से चैत्र की नवरात्रि है यह नौ दिन नारी शक्ति की पूजा का पर्व है। — Uma Bharti (@umasribharti) April 1, 2022

Also Read: MP Government did not extend the tenure of Sarpanchs by five years in wake of COVID-19

Fact Check/Verification

To verify the veracity of the claim whether the MP government plans to set-up separate liquor shops for women or not, Newschecker conducted a keyword search and found several such posts from 2021 as well, revealing that the same claim had gone viral earlier as well.

We further and found a report by Times of India, dated February 27, 2020, with the title ‘Madhya Pradesh: Women-friendly liquor shops set to lift spirits.’

The report stated that, “Kamal Nath government has decided to set up two exclusive shops each in Bhopal and Indore, and one each in Jabalpur and Gwalior. And these outlets would stock wine and whiskey brands that are popular among women.”

Several news outlets had reported on the matter in February 2020. You can read such reports here, here and here.

Taking a clue, we looked up the archive section of the news website ‘Peoplessamachar.in’ and found that the viral news clip was reported on February 28, 2020 in the Jabalpur edition of the e-newspaper.

Newschecker contacted Sitaram Thakur, bureau head at People’s Samachar, who told us that the news is two years old when there was Kamal Nath-led Congress government in Madhya Pradesh. “There was a proposal to open separate liquor shops for women at that time. However, it was withdrawn after protests by the BJP leaders.”

Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the then-leader of opposition, had criticised Congress govt’s alleged move to open separate liquor stores for women in Madhya Pradesh.

मेरे दिल की बात कवि कुमार विश्वास ने कह दी-



''हनक सत्ता की सच सुनने की आदत बेच देती है ,

हया को,शर्म को आख़िर सियासत बेच देती है ,

निकम्मेपन की बेशर्मी अगर आँखों पे चढ़ जाए ,

तो फिर औलाद, “पुरखों की विरासत” बेच देती है''https://t.co/1dXdoX8hVg — Shivraj Singh Chouhan (@ChouhanShivraj) February 28, 2020

Notably, the Kamal Nath-led Congress government in Madhya Pradesh had been toppled in March 2020 and was replaced by Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government after just fifteen months in power.

On further investigation, we found reports from February 2020, stating that the then state minister, the late Brijendra Singh Rathore, clarified that the government has not approved any scheme for opening separate liquor stores for women in the state.

You can read such reports here, here and here.

Newschecker further conducted a keyword search on the words ‘Liquor store for women in MP’ but didn’t find any recent reports on the same.

We further scanned the official website of the excise department of the state but didn’t find any mention of separate liquor stores for women.

The new excise policy of the state did not mention any such provision either.

Newschecker reached out to the MP Excise commissioner- Rajeev Chandra Dubey. His response is awaited.

Conclusion

The viral image of newspaper clipping stating that the Madhya Pradesh government plans to open separate liquor shops for women in the state is from 2020. It’s an old news report and the claims were contradicted by the then-state minister.

Result: False Context/Missing Context

Sources

Peoplessamachar.in

NDTV

New Excise Policy, MP

Direct Contact With Sitaram Thakur

If you would like us to fact check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 ​or email us at ​checkthis@newschecker.in​. You can also visit the Contact Us​ page and fill the form.