Mumbai monsoons are often romanticized. However, the city hasn't had much rain this year. Meanwhile, a video of a few motorcycles slipping on a flyover has gone viral on social media. People sharing this video have claimed this shocking visual to be from Sanpada of Navi Mumbai.

Some users shared this video with a caption that read, "Oh my God!!! What did just happen!!! This video is of Navi Mumbai Sanpada area..."

advertisement

Archived versions of these posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be false as the video was not shot in Navi Mumbai. It is from Karachi, Pakistan.

AFWA Probe

While going through the comment section of one of the viral videos, we noticed people have claimed this incident to be from Karachi.

A showroom of 'Honda' was visible 5 seconds into the video. So, we searched on Google Maps for Honda showrooms in Karachi and found a similar-looking one near the Rashid Minhas Road in the city.

After comparing the Google photos with the screenshot from the viral video, it became clear that the showroom and the 'Free Parking' gate on the left are from Karachi city and not Navi Mumbai as claimed in the viral videos.

What caused the accident?

Keyword searches took us to a news report published on Geo TV on June 23, 2022, that had the same video.

The report mentioned that these accidents occurred due to a slippery road amid heavy showers and an unexpected dust storm on Wednesday (June 22, 2022). Although no casualties were reported, some of the riders got injured in the incident.

The viral video was used in another news report from Pakistan that mentioned wind speeds reaching 81 km per hour in Karachi on June 22. Per a report on Dawn, four persons including three children were killed in Karachi following the 'unexpected' pre-monsoon downpour.

We also reached out to Sameen Aziz, a fact-checker from Pakistan who confirmed to AFWA that the video is indeed from Karachi and was shot on 22 June in front of the Millennium Mall. According to her, this mishap was caused by the monsoon rains that made the roads slippery.

When we searched in Urdu for the video on Google, it took us to the YouTube channel of Capital TV. The video was published here on June 23, stating that it happened in Karachi.

Therefore, it is safe to conclude that a video from Karachi has been shared with a false claim.

[Update: We had contacted Pakistan-based fact-checker Sameen Aziz for her input, and the story has been updated accordingly.]