Imran Khan often remains in the headlines after the recent coup in Pakistan. Once again a news in support of the former Pakistani Prime Minister is going massively viral on the social media sites. Further, along with the pictures a user named @Nitasha_Khan1 wrote in Urdu which can be nearly translated into English, “Public sea of Sialkot. This nation is not afraid of violence, coercion and intimidation. If Imran Khan was wrong then the present government should prove it by its own action. Otherwise this nation will prove you wrong. #SialkotJalsa.”

Similarly, another user @kirannaz_KN wrote which can be nearly transleated into English, “Public sea of Sialkot. This nation is not afraid of violence, coercion and intimidation. If Imran Khan was wrong then the present government should prove it by its own action. Otherwise this nation will prove you wrong. #SialkotJalsa.”

Similarly, many users have shared this post on the social media.

Fact Check

On reverse image search, we found a post from the verified account of the offficial account of the People’s Television Network in Philippines, @PTVph of dated March 22,2022. In the post the pictures were used. Further the caption of the post reads, “SEE: Drone shot of the UniTeam campaign rally in Gen. Trias Sports Complex, Cavite tonight (March 22).” They shared the post on Facebook as well.

TINGNAN: Drone shot ng UniTeam campaign rally sa Gen. Trias Sports Complex, Cavite ngayong gabi (Marso 22). (📷: LAKAS-CMD) | via Daniel Manalastas#PTVElectionTV pic.twitter.com/Sdzd9Xx9pn — PTVph (@PTVph) March 22, 2022

The location given in the post is Gen. Trias Sports Complex, Cavite. It is in Philippine.

On further analysis, we found we found a post of LAKAS-CMD dated 22 March. In the post the drone footage of the same rally was shown. The Filipino caption of the video can be translated into English as, “It’s really different for you CAVITEÑOs! Thank you so much for joining our Uniteam Grand Rally. You again.”

Also Read: List of fabricated stories of Arnab Goswami

Also Read: List Of Fabricated stories of Sudhir Chaudhary and Zee News.

Conclusion

The viral picture is actually of Philippines. Hence, the users are sharing it with a false claim.