As if the panic created by the deadly second wave of the pandemic was not enough, a viral statement attributed to French virologist and Nobel laureate Luc Montagnier has left netizens startled and scared. As per this statement, all those who have vaccinated themselves for Covid-19 will die within two years.

A clip of Luc’s interview is being circulated on social media in which he’s seen questioning the idea of vaccinating people during the pandemic.

advertisement

“It’s unthinkable to vaccinate during a pandemic. They’re silent. It is the antibodies produced by the virus that enable the infection to become stronger. It is what we call antibody-dependent enhancement, which means antibodies favour a certain infection. It is clear that the new variants are created by antibody-mediated selection due to the vaccination,” Luc says in the French interview.

A Twitter user shared the video with the caption: All vaccinated people will die within 2 years. Nobel laureate Luc Montagnier has confirmed that there is no chance of survival for people who have received any form of the vaccine. In the shocking interview, the world's leading virologist stated bluntly: “There is no hope...”

All vaccinated people will die within 2 years.

Nobel laureate Luc Montagnier has confirmed that there is no chance of survival for people who have received any form of the vaccine. In the shocking interview, the world's leading virologist stated bluntly: "There is no hope..." pic.twitter.com/d9Y0i8TV7A— Cecilia (@Ceciliafields) May 24, 2021

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that though Luc had called the idea of vaccinating masses during the pandemic an unacceptable medical error and raised concern about antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE), he hasn’t said anything like all people who got themselves vaccinated for Covid-19 will die within two years.

Several websites have also published reports based on this claim. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

The interview in question has been carried by several news websites. Had Luc given such a shocking statement, it would have surely been carried by international media. But we did not find any such statement attributed to Luc in any credible media outlet.

On the right of the viral video, a logo of “Rair Foundation USA” can be seen. We did a keyword search and found the article on the website of “Rair Foundation USA”, which describes itself as a grassroots activist organisation.

In this report too, it isn’t written anywhere that people receiving a vaccination for Covid-19 will die within two years. The complete interview can be seen here.

What Luc said

The Nobel laureate has called mass vaccination against coronavirus during the pandemic “unthinkable” and a historic blunder that is “creating the variants” and leading to deaths from the disease. He has also raised concerns about antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE).

advertisement

According to the Mary Ann Liebert “Coronavirus Resource Center,” virus-specific antibodies are in general considered antiviral and play an important role in controlling infections in a number of ways.

However, in some instances, the presence of specific antibodies can be beneficial to the virus. This activity is known as antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE). The ADE of virus infection is a phenomenon in which virus-specific antibodies enhance the entry of the virus, and in some cases, the replication of the virus.

The Press Information Bureau (PIB) has also refuted the claim, calling it fake.

An image allegedly quoting a French Nobel Laureate on #COVID19 vaccines is circulating on social media



The claim in the image is #FAKE. #COVID19 Vaccine is completely safe



Do not forward this image#PIBFactCheck pic.twitter.com/DMrxY8vdMN— PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) May 25, 2021

Luc’s history of controversial statements

Luc Montagnier was the joint recipient (along with Françoise Barré-Sinoussi and Harald Zur Hausen) of the 2008 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his discovery of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). However, his nomination had led to massive controversy as there were allegations of theft and deception against him.

advertisement

Thereafter, Luc created several controversies with his statements.

Last year, he’d said that the deadly coronavirus was manufactured in a laboratory in China’s Wuhan. Though this theory is yet to receive validation, it had created quite a sensation back then.

As per the French news website “The Connexion”, just one year after winning the Nobel prize, he had claimed that a good immune system was enough to protect people against AIDS. The report also says that Luc is known for being anti-vaccination, pro-homoeopathy, and believes that “water has memory”.

In 2017, he had opposed the French government’s decision to make certain vaccinations mandatory, accusing the policy of “poisoning the next generation little by little”. In response, 106 academicians and scientists had written an open letter, alleging that one of their peers is using his Nobel Prize status to spread dangerous health messages outside of his field of knowledge.

Thus, it is clear that though Luc Montagnier has indeed raised concerns around vaccination during the Covid-19 pandemic, but he has not said anything like people who vaccinate themselves will die within two years.