Social media users shared an article from a satirical website believing it to be True.

An image targeting pharmaceutical company Pfizer’s Vice President Rady Johnson is going viral on social media. Users claimed that Rady Johnson was arrested after Pfizer released a new set of documents about the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. Users claim that he was arrested on charges of fraud.

Several users also claimed that the mainstream media was not covering his arrest as it defames the COVID-19 vaccine.



The caption of the post states “VP of Pfizer arrested after #pfizerdocuments get released. Because of Rady’s arrest, the hashtag #pfizerdocuments has started trending on Twitter. Multiple celebrities are now calling for other employees at Pfizer to be arrested.”

Facebook Post

This image is widely circulating on Facebook.

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google along with a keyword search. The results led us to the website of Vancouver Times where the article was posted. The website mentions that Rady Johnson, the executive Vice President of Pfizer, was arrested at his home and charged with multiple counts of fraud by federal agents. He was taken into custody and is awaiting a bail hearing. This comes as 1,000s of classified documents from Pfizer were released, showing the true risks of the experimental vaccine.

The headline of the articles mentions, “VP of Pfizer arrested after #pfizerdocuments get released.” The article itself mentions that it is a Satire posted on 6 May 2022.



We checked the “about us” section of this website, which stated that it is purely a satirical website. It states, “Vancouver Times is the most trusted source for satire on the West Coast. We write satirical stories about issues that affect conservatives. We are not affiliated with the mainstream media (CBC, CTV etc.) in any way, and any similarities between our content and the work of the MSM is purely coincidental.”

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the image to be False. An article from a satirical website is being shared to falsely claim that Pfizer’s Vice President has been arrested.