Posts related to mob lynching are on the rise across social media of late. Most of them come with misleading communal spin. For instance, one viral 10-second video shows a bare-bodied old man folding his hands and making placatory gestures like bowing down to a cheering and dancing mob, all dressed in black.

advertisement





Twitter user Dev Oza posted the video saying: An old man’s holy thread (janeu) was first cut off and he was stripped by a mob who then forced him to dance. This is the condition of the @INCIndia ruled states of the South. @ Rahul Gandhi Ji isn’t it mob lynching of the minority Brahmins? He tagged the post written in Hindi to PM Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah along with others.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be misleading. The old man was neither humiliated nor beaten up. He was not even forced to take off his clothes or holy thread. He voluntarily danced amid the crowd.

Dev Oza’s post was re-tweeted 3,770 times and liked by more than 3,000 users at the time of filing this story.

The same post is viral on Facebook as well. Prashant Baluni and many others have posted the same content.

In the viral video, the men and women surrounding the old man are seen in black clothes. They are also seen holding black flags with images of famous Tamil social reformer EV Ramasamy, popularly known as Periyar, imprinted on them.

Searching the Internet with various keywords in Tamil, we found that this viral video was fact-checked by a Tamil website called YouTurn on June 26, 2019.

They posted a longer version of the same video taken from YouTube channel Karuppar Koottam’. This video was uploaded on June 24, 2019. The viral video has been clipped out from this 1.37 minute-long video.

In the entire video, the old man is never seen to be humiliated or heckled by the cheering crowd. The man on his own joined them in dancing. Even till the end of the video, the old man’s holy thread can be seen hanging intact from his bare chest.

Towards the end, the old man can be seen shaking hands with a drummer who offered him to play it but he humbly refused and left with a smile on his face.

advertisement

Fact checking website BoomLive confirmed with Karuppar Koottam that the event organised by People’s Forum took place on May Day this year near the Periyar statue in Kanchipuram.

Periyar, known as the Father of Dravidian Movement’, had done exemplary works against Brahminical dominance, caste prevalence and women oppression in Tamil Nadu in the 20th century.

Karuppar Koottam on their Facebook page mentioned how the fake news with the viral video clip regarding the old Brahmin man is being circulated on social media.

The longer version of the video clearly shows that the claim made on the social media pointing to the mob lynching of Brahmins is completely wrong.

Also read: Fact Check: Truth behind viral pic of Big B lending hand to stretcher to carry a body

Also read: Fact Check: Viral post warning Mumbai residents of robbers is a hoax