After Prime Minister Narendra Modi concluded his two-day visit to Bangladesh on Saturday, a picture of some Congress leaders with Sheikh Hasina started circulating on social media. The picture shows Sonia Gandhi facing Hasina and in the middle of a discussion, while Manmohan Singh and others look on.

It is being sarcastically said that Sonia took former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on a tour to Bangladesh during the UPA regime. As the picture clearly shows Sonia and Hasina taking the prominent seats, netizens are taking a dig at Manmohan, saying he was merely a “mute spectator” during the UPA government and someone else was pulling the strings.

advertisement

A Facebook user posted the picture on March 28 and wrote, “Once upon a time Sonia Gandhi once took Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on a tour of Bangladesh!”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the picture to be misleading. The picture was taken in October 2019 when the Congress leaders met Hasina in New Delhi. Sonia took the prominent seat as party chief.

The picture is doing the rounds with the same caption on Twitter. The archived version of the viral post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Using relevant keywords, we found similar pictures of the meeting in multiple news reports. A report by NDTV says on October 6, 2019, Hasina had met Congress chief Sonia Gandhi along with other leaders of the party, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Anand Sharma, and former PM Manmohan Singh, in New Delhi. At that time, Hasina was on a four-day visit to India.

It was reported that matters related to both nations were discussed in the meeting. The viral picture can be found in the photo gallery of “Outlook”, captioned, “Congress President Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and party leaders meet Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina at Hyderabad House, in New Delhi.”

News agency ANI had also tweeted some pictures of the meeting on October 6, 2019.

Delhi: Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Former Prime Minister Dr.Manmohan Singh, Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Anand Sharma meet Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina pic.twitter.com/TnzD9P8fKO — ANI (@ANI) October 6, 2019

Manmohan had also visited Bangladesh as PM in 2011. But the viral picture was not taken during the UPA regime but some 18 months back in New Delhi.

READ | Fact Check: This is not Tamil Nadu welcoming Rahul Gandhi ahead of assembly polls

READ | Fact Check: Image of Queen Elizabeth II thanking PM Modi for Covid vaccines is morphed