We received a Whatsapp request for Fact Check from 8446256754 on 12 June 2019.

When we searched on social media with the claim received, we found many videos with the same claim on Facebook. Let us look below, different descriptions from our search.

In the shared video, a man is beating up small children brutally. The details of the post are as follows – Whatever number and group you have, you should not miss a single one, send this video to everyone. This is a teacher of Walsad’s DPS SCHOOL Rajbag, so share this so that both of these teachers and schools stop. The video makes a lot of difference when it becomes viral and action taken, and those who do not have mercy, keep their mouth (typing) closed. In the post it is being claimed that, “The teacher of Walsad’s DPS School Rajbag is beating the children brutally.” Let us see what the facts are!

A Facebook user named ‘Komal Rewdiya Kalse’ shared a post on 10 June 2019. The post as translated from Hindi quoted “Whatever number and group you have, you should not miss a single one, send this video to everyone. This is a teacher of Walsad’s DPS SCHOOL Rajbag, so share this so that both of these teachers and schools stop. The video makes a lot of difference when it becomes viral and action taken, and those who do not have mercy, keep their mouth (typing) closed.” This post claims, The teacher of Walsad’s DPS School Rajbag is beating the children brutally. Let us see what the facts are!

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA:

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

We searched in Google using different key words about the given school in the above post. You can see the results of the search we find below:

First we searched with ‘valsad dps school’ key words and found that Walsad is in Gujrat.

Then we searched with ‘dps school rajbagh’ key words and found that Rajbag is in Kathua – Jammu.

In this search, we identified that in the shared post of Delhi Public School (DPS) has two different cities stated in the video. Apart from this, while searching, we also saw such claims from many other schools.

After this we took a screen shot from the video and searched it on ‘Bing Image Search’. We came across a website named ‘Asiantown’, which published this video related story dated 8 August 2014.

According to this news, in Giza at Egypt, there is an orphanage called Dar Mecca Al-Mokram. This video belongs to that orphanage. The Orphanage manager’s wife had secretly taken this video. To read the whole story, click on the link below.

AsiantownNews | ArchivedLink

Post this we searched on Google with ‘orphanage manager beating kids in egypt’ key words. What we got in the search is below:

In this search, we got a news from ‘BBC’. According to this news, the person shown in the above video is Osama Mohammad Othman and this man was the manager of Mecca orphanage in Giza. Osama was sentenced with 3 years of imprisonment, which included two years’ hard labour. The third year could be suspended, pending the payment of $110 (£87) bail.

Osama’s wife had recorded this video stealthily and later uploaded it online. When asked, she said that she could not tolerate her husband torturing the children anymore.

BBCPost | ArchivedLink

The news prove that the claim made in the above post is not of DPS in India, but it is in an orphanage of Giza, Egypt. This video dates back to 2014.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact checked and confirms that the video shared in the post is with a wrong narrative. We categorise the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased videos and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.