Just a day after trolls questioned the authenticity of the pictures Congress president Rahul Gandhi shared from his Mansarovar yatra on social media, he was forced into another controversy for a photograph in which he was seen standing with a pilgrim with a stick in hand. Sadhvi Khosla was among the first who shared it on Twitter and soon it was being shared and commented widely. The man with whom Rahul is seen in the picture is Mihir Patel, an engineer from Ahmedabad in Gujarat.

advertisement

The twist in the story surfaced when Union minister Giriraj Singh made an allegation through his Twitter account (@girirajsinghbjp ) that Rahul's picture was photoshopped. He wondered "where the shadow of the stick vanished"? Thousands of people retweeted and liked Giriraj's tweet and soon a full-fledged debate ignited on social media about the mystery of missing shadow of the stick which Rahul was holding.

India Today Fact Check Team investigated and reached to the conclusion that the picture was not photoshopped. The shadow of the stick is not visible primarily because of the position at the time when the photo was clicked and also due to camera angle. In fact, the shadow of the stick is hidden just behind the stick in the lower half and merged into the shadow of Rahul's body in the upper half.

This is how we solved the mystery of the missing shadow of the stick.

We first reached out to Mihir Patel, the man in the picture with Rahul. After repeated attempts, we managed to speak to him over phone who is now returning from Kailash Mansarovar . He confirmed that his friend, Kenon Patel, who is also on the pilgrimage, clicked the snap with him near Dolma la pass on September 6 somewhere between 11.30 am and 12 (local time). Kenon has posted many pictures and video en route Kailash Mansarovar which can be seen here.

Using Google Earth and Suncalc website, we matched the position of sun and the shadow pattern around 11.45 am on September 6 near Dolma la pass. It was confirmed that the sun was almost at the top angle and the shadow would be sharp and short and fall at about 100 degree. This is what is visible in Rahul's picture.

Looking closely at the picture and the shadow, one can notice interesting facts which can unravel the puzzle of invisible shadow of the stick. We can clearly see three things.

One, look at the shadow of the lower end of Rahul's jacket (where is hand is in the pocket). Mark how the shadow is cast on his jeans, indicating that the sun is on the top.

Two, looking very closely at the point where Rahul is holding the stick, one can see a tiny shadow of his finger on his jeans at the right side. The shadow is almost hiding behind the stick because of the angle of the light. Also, at the neck of the stick where it has a curve, a tinge of the shadow can be seen, again indicating that the due to top sun position, the shadows are forming just behind the object. That means the shadow of the stick is hidden just behind the stick. In the middle portion, the shadow of the stick is merging into the bigger shadow of Rahul's body.

Three, the shadow of the string of the bag that Mihir is holding in left hand provides a vital clue. The angle between the string of his bag and Mihir's left leg is similar to the angle between Rahul's right leg and the stick. The shadow of the string is falling on Mihir's right leg. If you hide Mihir's left leg, the shadow of the string would also become invisible like the stick's shadow as it would merge into the bigger shadow of the body behind him.

advertisement

We contacted senior photographer of Indian Express, Anil Sharma, regarding the mystery of the shadow of stick. Anil confirmed that in a top sun position, the shadow of a uniform and thin object like stick can hide behind the object due to camera angle. He also underlined the shadow pattern of the bag's string to drive home the point.

On Twitter, @Atheist_Krishna, who is a self-proclaimed photoshop expert, posted this step-by-step explanatory video about the mystery of stick's shadow which can be seen here. He also has arrived at the same conclusion.

Many people are still asking me about the pic of RaGa and the mystery behind the missing shadow.

So i tried to recreate the image & this is what i found.



Note: I MAY BE COMPLETELY WRONG. pic.twitter.com/xaNtOwmDdT PhD in Bakchodi (@Atheist_Krishna) September 7, 2018



Talking to India Today, Giriraj skirted the specific questions about the picture by saying that everything about the Congress party is fake.