Is Jyotiraditya Scindia planning a ‘ghar wapsi’ to the Congress just two months after he quit the Grand Old Party to join BJP? This is what is being claimed by a Twitter handle named “India TV” (@IndiaTVPoll) and having a logo similar to “India TV” news channel as its profile picture.

The tweet in Hindi translates to: According to sources, BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia is set to quit BJP by Monday. He has said, “Either make me a minister or Shivraj should be ready for the consequences. I lost respect because of him and didn’t get anything in return either. Mama and Modi together tricked me.”

advertisement

The archived version of the tweet that has gone viral on social media can be seen here. Till the filing of this story, the tweet was liked by more than 10,800 users and retweeted over 2,600 times. Netizens, believing that it was posted by “India TV” news channel, shared the tweet widely on Facebook as well.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the Twitter handle which shared the viral tweet is not the official Twitter handle of “India TV” or in any way associated with the news channel. In fact, it is a parody account, which is clearly mentioned in the bio. The profile picture also has the word “farzi” (fake) along with the “India TV” logo.

The original account of “India TV” news channel is verified by Twitter and has a different profile picture.

Scindia and BJP

Scindia’s close aide and personal assistant Purushottam Parashar also clarified to AFWA that the viral tweet is fake and many similar articles are circulating on social media.

Parashar sent us some newspaper clippings which claimed that all is not well between Scindia and the BJP. Parashar said these news items are baseless, and printed and circulated by the Congress.

Scindia had joined the BJP on March 11 in the presence of the party’s national president JP Nadda. The former Congress MP from Guna, Madhya Pradesh, switched to the BJP after 18 long years of association with the Grand Old Party.

Scindia’s rebellion literally brought down the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh, with nearly two dozen MLAs loyal to him resigning from the Kamal Nath government. This paved the way for BJP’s return to power and Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s return to the chief minister’s chair in the central Indian state.

The Gwalior royal family scion, once a close aide of Rahul Gandhi, had said while defecting that Congress is not the party it used to be and his dreams were shattered in the party. And social media claims that he is close to quitting BJP to return to the Congress if not given a cabinet berth is false.