A video of a mass Islamic funeral procession is circulating on social media with the claim that these are scenes from the last rites of the Chechen descent who beheaded French teacher Samuel Paty in Paris for showing cartoons of Prophet Muhammad in class.

The caption of the video says, "The Chechen youth who shot and killed Samuel, the teacher who insulted the Prophet Muhammadh in France, was shot dead by the police there! His body was brought to Chechnya and buried. Inna lillahi wa inna ilahi rajion".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. This 2018 video from Chechnya shows the funeral procession of Yusup Temirkhanov, a Russian native who died in prison while serving sentence for the murder of a Russian ex-Colonel named Yuri Budanov.

Similar claims are also viral in Tamil.

The archived versions can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found that the same video was uploaded on the Facebook page of Russian online magazine "Spectrum" on August 5, 2018.

The video description in Russian translates to, "The funeral of Yusup Temirkhanov, who in 2011 was found guilty of the murder of former Colonel Yuri Budanov, was held in Chechnya. Tens of thousands of people gathered for the funeral, and the head of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, also attended."

Caption: Screenshot comparison between viral video (L) and video on Spectrum's Facebook page (R)

Taking a cue from this, we further searched the Internet and found similar videos uploaded by several YouTube channels in August 2018 as Temirkhanov's funeral procession.

We also found news reports on Temirkanov's death in a Russian jail and the mass funeral procession at his village.

According to the reports, the funeral procession was held at the Chechen village of Geldagen. On Google Maps, we found a mosque, which closely resembles the one seen in the background of the viral video.

Conclusion

French teacher Samuel Paty was beheaded in Paris on October 16 by 18-year-old Abdullakh Anzorov of Chechen origin for showing cartoons of Prophet Muhammad in a class.

Soon after, Anzorov was shot dead by police. We, however, could not find any report on his body being taken back to his native Chechnya and buried. But it is clear that the viral video is more than two years old and not related to Paty's murder.