Democrat candidate Joe Biden beat incumbent Donald Trump in the United States Presidential elections in a closely fought contest, with the latter raising accusations of electoral fraud and asking the Supreme Court to intervene in vote count.

On social media, a CCTV footage showing some people stuffing what appear to be voting papers into a ballot box is going viral with the claim that this was how election results were rigged in the US.

advertisement

The Hindi caption along with one such video translates to, "Those who conduct elections are themselves casting fake votes in the US. Obviously, Donald Trump will go to the Supreme Court. This is why the liberal gang is so happy."

@realDonaldTrump SC pic.twitter.com/PuXqKzzMdC

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that it is a two-year-old video from Russia and not related to the recent US elections.

Similar claims are also shared on Facebook. The archived versions can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Using InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found that the video is from the 2018 Russian presidential elections. We found the same video uploaded by global news agency AFP (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gwi-Ao-3n20) on its official YouTube channel on March 18, 2018.

The headline of the video reads, "CCTV shows apparent ballot stuffing in Russian vote".

"Election observers highlighted CCTV footage provided by Russia's Electoral Commission which appeared to show staff putting extra votes into a ballot box at a polling station in the Russian city of Lyubertsy on the outskirts of Moscow. The Electoral Commission has acknowledged this instance appears to show fraud, and has said fraudulent votes will be cancelled," the video description reads.

We also found reports by the Washington Post and Independent confirming that the video is from Moscow's Lyubertsy.

Referring to the video, the "Independent" said, "It's not known how many papers were placed in the box each time; however, on a number of occasions, the officials seem to be lifting multiple sheets. This happens a total of 11 times over approximately 13 minutes."

The reports also said that the Russian Electoral Commission acknowledged the instance as fraud and said fraudulent votes will be canceled. Therefore, it is clear that the viral CCTV footage showing ballot-stuffing is not from the US but Russia, and is more than two years old.