A picture of some men is going viral on the internet. Further, by sharing the picture social media users are claiming that the man in the Kurta is Lakhisarai DM Sanjay Kumar Singh. Meanwhile, along with a picture, Facebook user Deepak Prasad wrote, “That DM sahib, who scolds the teacher, is himself roaming in the similar attire as a public representative instead of an IAS. Someone, please stop the salary!!!! Or will every stick run only on the weak?”

(“शिक्षक को डाँटने वाले वो डीएम साहब खुद उसी वेशभूषा में आईएएस की बजाय जनप्रतिनिधि बनकर घूम रहे हैं। कोई तो वेतन रुकवाओ रे!!!! या निर्बलों पर ही चलेगा हर डंडा?”)

According to the report published in news18 on 13 July 2022, he visited a school for inspection in Balgudar. Seeing the flaws in the school there, DM Sanjay Kumar Singh reprimanded the teacher. He also commented on the dress of the teacher. During that time the teacher was wearing a kurta-pajama and was also wearing a gamchha. In this regard, the DM later said that he has no problem with kurta-pajama. Later we also felt that we should not have commented on anyone’s clothes.

Fact Check

On reverse image search, we got an article of Jagran with the same picture published on 14th August 2021. Further, the title of the article was,” Flood in Lakhisarai: DM reached among the flood victims, immediately started community kitchen, assured all possible help.”

Therefore, from the above article, the very first thing that is clear is that this is an old picture, Further, digging into the matter we got to know that the man in Kurta is former Zilla Parishad president, Ramashankar. AND, DM Sanjay Kumar Singh is in the leftmost side.

Moreover, in the article, it was mentioned that DM visited the flood-affected areas in Lakhisarai. During this, community kitchens were started at many places. He also assured all possible help to the flood victims. In fact, many areas of Lakhisarai have been flooded with water.

DM Sanjay Kumar Singh, SP Sushil Kumar, DDC Anil Kumar, SDO Sanjay Kumar, ASDM Rakesh Kumar, Pipariya’s BDO Vivek Ranjan, CO Ramji Prasad, Zilla Parishad President Ramshankar Sharma, former chief Ravi Ranjan Kumar alias Tuntan a big one from Patelpur Ghat of Suryagarha Reached Pathua village by boarding a boat.

Conclusion

Therefore, the man in the picture wearing a kurta is not Lakhisarai DM Sanjay Kumar Singh, Bur he is Ramashankar, the former Zilla Parishad president. Hence, the claim of social media users is misleading.