The recent incessant rainfall in Bangladesh’s Sylhet region has claimed at least 25 lives. The devastating flood has also left more than four million people stranded.

Against this backdrop, a collage of images is widely shared on social media claiming that it shows Bangladesh Army carrying out a rescue operation in the flood-hit Sylhet region.

The image is shared on Facebook with a caption in Bengali language: “আলহামদুলিল্লাহ্‌ উদ্ধারকাজে নিয়োজিত বাংলাদেশের আস্থা বাংলাদেশ সেনাবাহিনী আল্লাহ্‌ এবার আপনি একটু দয়া করুন। সকল আযাব গজব হতে প্রিয় ভূমি বাংলাদেশ ও সিলেট অঞ্চলে পানিবদ্ধ মানুষগুলোকে হিফাজত করুন”

(English translation: Alhamdulillah Confidence of Bangladesh engaged in rescue work Bangladesh Army God, now, please. Protect the waterlogged people in the beloved land of Bangladesh and the Sylhet region from all the torment and wrath)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

Doing a simple Reverse Image Search, directed us to a post on the official Facebook page of the Bangladesh Army, dated June 19, 2018, which published the same images. The caption reads: “Bangladesh Army next to the flood victims in Moulvibazar”.

The same image had been carried by a Facebook page — ‘Bangla Fact’, on June 20, 2018, with a caption: “Ignoring the Eid vacation, Bangladesh Army besides the flood victims of Moulvibazar. Thank you”

Taking a cue from this, we did a keyword search and found a news report published by a Bangladesh news website on June 16, 2018, reporting that “the flood situation in Moulvibazar has further deteriorated due to the downpour from upper reaches.” In June 2018, when the flood situation deteriorated in Moulvibazar, the Bangladesh Army was involved in the overall relief and rescue work of the flood victims.

Thus, it is clear that an old set of images is being falsely shared as recent visuals of the Bangladesh Army carrying out a rescue operation in the flood-hit Sylhet region.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news