A video showing police in China apparently shooting dead three men has been going viral in India. Many social media users have claimed that the three youths are Uyghur Muslims and this is how police in China crush Islamic terrorism in Xinjiang province.

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video has nothing to do with extremism and was only a simulation exercise by Shanghai police.

advertisement

Twitter user Uma Garghi uploaded the 44-second video that starts with two policemen talking to a youth on a deserted street. Two more youths approach from behind and the three men then attack the policemen. Soon a scuffle ensues and the three youths are shot dead. Almost on cue, a siren-wailing police van enters the scene before the end of the video.

Garghi says, Chinese Police shoots dead 3 Uyghur Muslim youth in Xinjiang Province which have quite a number of Muslims. Few create trouble as usual 4 bloody jihad,like they do in Kashmir valley.See how d Chinese crush & Islamic Pak has no problem with China Clip must be shown2 Owaisi &,Omar

This post was retweeted by more than 500 users till the time of filing this story. The archived version can be seen here.

This video went viral last year too with the same claim on Facebook , YouTube and other social media platforms. While most social media users believed it, some others doubted it.

The entire action sequence in the video seems very well coordinated which raised our doubts. AFWA checked the Internet and found that a shootout did occur in which police in China shot dead three suspects. But the viral video is not related to that incident.

According to the Chinese government, separatists in Xinjiang had planned to carve out their own state called East Turkestan. They had links with militants in Asia and the Middle East. The incident took place in 2017 and can be read here

AFWA did a reverse search of the viral video that showed up results from a Chinese website which says Shanghai police SERT special mobile team terrorist attack scene simulation exercise with the video. This drill, according to the website, was conducted in Songjiang, a suburban district of Shanghai.

Also read: Fact Check: Did Bengal police thrash a man for saying Jai Shri Ram?

Also read: Fact Check: No, this filthy flight was not carrying Indian Haj pilgrims