Spread the truth:

A viral tweet allegedly posted by one Ansar Ahmad Ali has caused quite a stir on Twitter. While making rounds on various social media, it has received around six thousand likes and two thousand retweets when posted on a Twitter page.

Claims: The tweet gained attention after cricketer Shivam Dube married his Muslim girlfriend Anjum Khan and shared the news on social media. The viral tweet read, “बीजेपी के मुख्य वोटर है हिंदू लड़के सभी मुस्लिम लड़कियों से गुजारिश है अगले 6 महीने तक हिंदू लडको को प्रेमजाल में फसाओ फिर कांग्रेस को वोट देने के लिए मनाओ जिससे बीजेपी हार जायेगी!” (“The main voters of BJP are Hindu boys. All Muslim girls are requested to trap Hindu boys in their love trap for the next six months, then convince them to vote for Congress, which will defeat BJP!”) Sharing it along with a picture of Dube and Khan’s wedding, Twitter users wrote, “मौलवी ने कहा, अंजुम खान ने किया!” (Maulvi said it, Anjum Khan did it!)

Twitter

archive

Facebook

Instagram

Truth

No, the tweet is fake as there is no such maulvi named Ansar Ahmad Ali on Twitter.

With the introduction of Anti-conversion laws in various states in India, there is a lot of commotion going around inter-faith marriages. In this political climate, every inter-faith celebrity marriage is making news for all the wrong reasons. Therefore, we decided to run a fact check on a similar news story. Cricketer Shivam Dube’s newlywed Muslim wife is getting trolled for allegedly following the appeal of a maulvi towards Muslim women to trap Hindu men and persuade them to vote for Congress.

After searching for the username on Twitter, the following result showed up.

However, the user did exist and may have recently deleted their account since we found replies to the username @Ansar2ali2.

So, we went forward with the investigation and ran a reverse image search on the display picture of the Twitter account. We found that the man in the image is not Ansar Ahmad Ali but Maulana Shahabuddin Rizvi.

The following article on Down to Earth corroborates our findings and confirms that he is Maulana Shahabuddin Rizvi, the national general secretary of an organization named Tanzeem Ulema-e-Islam.

In addition to that, another fact-checking organization Alt News, spoke to Rizvi over a telephonic call, who said, “I have been informed that my image is being shared on social media with an inappropriate statement. I am not on Twitter. I plan to take a legal action against this. I have already informed my advocate about the same.”

Hence, this proves that the viral tweet is posted by a fake account and is probably an attempt to spread hatred.

Related