Spread the truth:

Prakash Raj, a much celebrated actor, usually known for his negative roles at times raises his voice against government. This time he tweeted few photo claiming them to be a protest against PM Modi in London on his arrival

“Centre can not hold things falling apart “ protests in Uk .. To those who abuse . Troll.. threaten me for #justasking..Do u hear voices getting stronger.. wider..louder ..across the world ..or will you continue to brand us anti national.. #justasking pic.twitter.com/gSrmqYY3oB — Prakash Raj (@prakashraaj) April 18, 2018

In this tweet he wrote

“Centre can not hold things falling apart “ protests in Uk .. To those who abuse . Troll.. threaten me for #justasking..Do u hear voices getting stronger.. wider..louder ..across the world ..or will you continue to brand us anti national.. #justasking”

All the four photos he tweeted are from US, London, New Delhi and Years 2013, 2015

USA Year 2015

USA unit of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) staged protest against Modi outside UNO office in New York. Modi was here to address a gathering at a seminar. The protesters under the patronage of S. Surjit Singh Kalhar (President, Shiromani Akali Dal (USA)) and Spokesperson S. Sarabjit Singh New York shouted pro-Khalistan and anti-Modi slogans on this occasion. The protesters termed Modi as ‘Hitler of India’ in their slogans.

USA, Year 2015

While the world celebrates the advent of Digital India and applaud the success of Narendra Modi’s meet with Mark Zuckerberg, there’s one activist group that’s not at all happy. Alliance For Justice And Accountability (AJA), a renowned liberal activist group based in the US, carried out protests against Modi, during his visit to Facebook. Demanding Modi’s accountability over the 2002 Gujarat riots, the group carried banners screaming slogans such as #ModiFail:

New Delhi, India Year 2013

NEW DELHI (Reuters) – Protesters clashed with police on Wednesday outside the University of Delhi, where Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, a popular but divisive contender to run for prime minister within a year, was making a speech to cheering students.

London, UK, Year 2015

LONDON, UK—Federation of Sikh Organisations (FSO), based in the UK, sternly asks for masked protestors to stay away.

FSOUK has asked any youth planning to participate in the #ModiNotWalcome demonstrations to be held in London on Thursday 12th November, outside Downing St and in Parliament Square to behave themselves.

General Secretary of the FSO, Bhai Kuldeep Singh Chaheru asked the more youthful members of the congregation to keep themselves respectful and should an “elder asks them to refrain from certain behavior, listen and refrain”.

Continuing, he asked “Anyone who plans to cover their face with scarfs or obscure their faces by other means for concealing their identity, to not participate at all”. To anybody wishing to participate peacefully and resectfully, he said he welcomed one and all.

But on this visit, although there was no mob protest but a Pakistan based Pro Khalistan and Pro Kashmir people torn Indian flag for which UK apologized

UK apologises over tricolor torn during PM Modi's visit https://t.co/D3AUKh17vQ — ABP News (@abpnewstv) April 19, 2018

This wasn’t first time Prakash Raj yweeted wrong photos, he was caught earlier too and debunked

Related