A picture of a man in white t-shirt escorted by police is circulating on social media with the claim that he was the juvenile involved in Nirbhaya’s gang rape and murder. Netizens are asking that he be hanged since he is an adult now.

The text in Hindi superimposed on the picture, as well as the captions used with it, translates to, “The juvenile convicted in the 2012 Nirbhaya case is now an adult. Should he be hanged? Raise your voice.”

advertisement

On December 16, 2012, a 23-year-old physiotherapist was brutally gang raped and tortured in Delhi, and she died 13 days later. Six people were found guilty, including a juvenile, who was sent to a rehabilitation centre for three years.

While one of the convicts, Ram Singh, hanged himself in prison, the Supreme Court upheld the death penalty for the rest. In March this year, all four of them were hanged to death.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The viral picture is not of the juvenile but another convict named Vinay Sharma. The juvenile was released after three years in rehabilitation.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.



The viral picture

Using reverse image search, we found that the viral picture of the man in white t-shirt has been published in several news websites with the caption, “Vinay Sharma is one of the four convicts in the December 2012 Delhi gang rape case.”

“Getty Images” also published the picture, giving credit to Hindustan Times photographer Sonu Mehta on September 24, 2013.

The caption says, “December 16 Delhi bus gang rape accused Vinay Sharma brought to Delhi High Court under high security for hearing on September 24, 2013 in New Delhi, India. These are the faces of the four men sentenced to death for the brutal gang rape and murder of a young woman on a bus in New Delhi last December, in an attack that sent shock waves across India.”

This can be seen here

Regarding the juvenile, we found from news reports that after spending three years in a rehabilitation centre, he was set free and later sent somewhere to South India to work as a cook in a restaurant.

No news report carries his face or his present whereabouts. Hence, it is confirmed that the picture of Vinay Sharma, one of the four convicts hanged in the Nirbhaya case, is being falsely shared as the juvenile involved in the incident.