It came as utter shock to many on social media when an online news website claimed on Sunday that the first volunteer for a human trial of the coronavirus vaccine in the United Kingdom has died.

The article, published by "News NT", claimed that Elisa Granato, a scientist, "died two days after the vaccine was administered". "Four other volunteer are said to be battling complications due to adverse reactions of the vaccine," the article added. The archived version of the article can be seen here.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral article to be a hoax. Elisa Granato, who received the first human trial vaccine for coronavirus, is doing fine.

Viral on social media

The same story has been published by another website called "The Nigerian News". Several people on Facebook have shared the misinformation.





Twitter user "Simon Jaysek" shared the "News NT" article and wrote, "First volunteer in UK coronavirus vaccine trial has died".

Replying to it, Twitter handle "@surrey13" said the news is untrue. The user claimed that Elisa Granato, on her Twitter handle @Prokaryota, has debunked this false news and tweeted that she's doing fine. Since Granato's Twitter handle is protected, only a few approved users can see her posts.

As per "@surrey13", Granato has replied to a tweet saying, "Nothing like walking up to a fake article on your death ... I'm doing fine everyone. Please don't share the article in question, we don't want to give them attention / clicks. Have a cute cat instead!"

First volunteer in UK coronavirus vaccine trial has died https://t.co/oxzdELbund — Simon Jaysek (@SimonJaysek) April 26, 2020

On April 23, the first human trial of a coronavirus vaccine was conducted on two persons. Granato was one of them. She told the BBC (https://www.bbc.com/news/health-52394485), "I'm a scientist, so I wanted to try to support the scientific process wherever I can."

We found that the UK's department of health and social care has also debunked this false news and tweeted, "News circulating on social media that the first volunteer in a UK #coronavirus vaccine trial has died is completely untrue."

News circulating on social media that the first volunteer in a UK #coronavirus vaccine trial has died is completely untrue.



Before sharing unsubstantiated claims online, use the SHARE checklist to help stop the spread of harmful content:

https://t.co/9rAFQES8Xm pic.twitter.com/HgG4cHnLFQ — Department of Health and Social Care (@DHSCgovuk) April 26, 2020

The newspaper "Mirror" also confirms that Granato is alive and doing fine.

AFWA found that the misinformation was first circulated on April 25 on "investorshub", a newswire website publishing press releases. It was later picked by "News NT", and netizens started circulating it on social media believing it to be true.