Bihar is currently dealing with the twin crises of Covid-19 and floods. The state went under a 16-day lockdown from today to arrest the spike in coronavirus cases - the same time over a dozen districts have been affected by floodwaters.

Amid this, a picture of a waterlogged hospital ward with patients sitting helplessly on their beds is circulating on social media with the claim that this is the condition in which Covid-19 patients are being treated in Bihar.

advertisement India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the picture to be misleading. The picture is not from Bihar but Hyderabad.

The picture has been shared with the caption, "Humble request to Hon'ble H. M Shri @AmitShah ji to intervene into the deteriorate medical situation of #Bihar resulted in dying of #Corona patients without treatment. The testing number are also vry much low as compared 2 othr state".

The picture is viral on Twitter with similar claims. The archived versions can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching the picture, we found it was carried by a news website called The Rahnuma Daily in an article on how rains and drainage water left Hyderabad's historic Osmania General Hospital flooded.

The source of the picture was mentioned as news agency IANS. The caption of the picture said, "Hyderabad's historic Osmania Hospital flooded." We found that IANS had tweeted the picture on July 15.

#Hyderabad: Rain and drainage water entered into state-run #OsmaniaGeneralHospital in Hyderabad on Wednesday, turning the oldest and one of the biggest healthcare facilities in #Telangana into a cesspool. pic.twitter.com/Ke9UZeOxTF — IANS Tweets (@ians_india) July 15, 2020



According to news reports, after heavy downpour, rain and sewage water entered as many as six wards of Osmania General Hospital, including the ICU. Osmania is also a Covid-19 test and treatment centre.

However, it is also true that Bihar is facing severe floods these days due to heavy rainfall. News agency ANI recently shared several pictures of flood in Muzaffarpur.

Bihar: Heavy rainfall leads to flood in Muzaffarpur pic.twitter.com/CNgmTDk1jZ — ANI (@ANI) July 15, 2020

According to media reports, hundreds of villages in Bihar have been submerged, and in several parts of the state, people are using boats to commute.

Also, Bihar is among the states where coronavirus cases are shooting up rapidly. A report by The Hindu says Covid-19 testing in Bihar has been lowest among 19 states.

advertisement

According to another report based on state health department data, Bihar is one of the states that have hardly seen a rise in testing, leading to a spurt in positivity rates.

Therefore, it is clear that though Bihar is battling both Covid-19 and floods, the viral picture of a waterlogged hospital ward is not from Bihar but Hyderabad.