A set of two images of an archaic steam engine locomotive has created a lot of buzz on the Internet for the past few days.

If some on social media are to be believed, there has been an "amazing" archaeological finding in Atlanta, United States, in recent times. Posting pictures of the classic locomotive, netizens claim, "They've uncovered the remains of a Civil War-era steam locomotive in pristine condition on the grounds of the Atlanta Cyclorama."

advertisement

This post has already been shared over 39,000 times since it was posted in a Facebook group. The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

However, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Though the steam engine does belong to the Civil War era, but it's not an archaeological finding.

AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we came across an article that carried one of the images in the set.

The report, published in December 2015, led us to a completely different story. It said that the Civil War-era locomotive's name is "Texas" and it was kept in Atlanta's Civil War Museum "Cyclorama Building" for years till it was relocated to Atlanta History Center in 2015.

For more information, we did some keyword search and came across a CNN article dated December 21, 2015. This report said that "Texas", the legendary Civil War-era locomotive, will be pulled by a truck and taken for restoration purposes.

A further keyword search led us to another report from which we came to know that in 2014, the mayor of Atlanta, Kasim Reed, announced that collections of the Civil War Museum will be relocated to Atlanta History Center in Buckhead.

We also found images of "Texas" after its renovation in another report published in April 2019. The locomotive is now kept in Atlanta History Center's exhibition area.

Therefore, we can conclude that the viral images are not of any archaeological finding, but were taken during the relocation of a Civil War-era locomotive in the United States.

(Inputs from Riddhish Dutta in Kolkata)