A message is being circulated on WhatsApp and Facebook which claims that Russia has gifted one million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine to Pakistan and the World Health Organisation (WHO) has termed it as Phase 3 trials of the vaccine.

Several Facebook users have posted this message which reads, "After China, Russia gifts Pakistan 1 Million COVID Vaccines; WHO calls it Human Trial Phase 3".

advertisement

A longer version of the same message which has also been shared by various users on Facebook reads, "Reportedly, Russia has gifted 1 million vaccines to Pakistan. Pakistan PM Imran Khan is calling it Pakistan's diplomat win and an indication of stronger ties with the countries who are close ally of India. However, WHO believes that it's not a gift but a human trial Phase 3 of Sputnik, Russian Covid vaccine."

India Today Anti- Fake News War room (AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim. The viral claim has been picked up from a satire web portal. Russia has not yet started the mass production of the vaccine. The reference to the WHO about the Russian vaccine is also not true. Pakistan has recently given a go-ahead to phase III trials for the Covid vaccine which is being developed by China.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here ().

AFWA probe

As per the Russian website created for updates on the Covid vaccine, "Spuknik V", the mass production of the vaccine is expected to start in September 2020.

The Phase 3 clinical trials of the vaccine began on August 12, 2020. And as per the website, it will involve more than 2,000 people in Russia, a number of Middle Eastern (UAE and Saudi Arabia), and Latin American countries (Brazil and Mexico). Nowhere the name of Pakistan as the country for Phase III clinical trial is mentioned.

With the help of keyword searches, we found an article published on a website called "The Fauxy" on August 14, 2020. The headline of the article reads "After China, Russia Gifts Pakistan 1 Million COVID Vaccines; WHO calls it Human Trial Phase 3". We found that the viral post is a straight lift from this article.

"The Fauxy" is a satire web portal. The disclaimer section of the website declares that "the content of the website is a work of fiction". Hence, the content of this particular article about Russia gifting vaccine to Pakistan is far from the truth.

We found that there are news reports that Pakistan has recently given green light to the country's first Phase 3 clinical trials for a Covid-19 vaccine, which is being developed by China's CanSino Biologics (CanSino) and Beijing Institute of Biotechnology.

But there are no such credible news reports which state that Russia is conducting its Phase 3 clinical trials for the newly approved Covid-19 vaccine in Pakistan. The viral claim about Russia gifting Covid vaccines to Pakistan is also not true.