Spread the truth:

A video is making rounds on social media claiming that a convoy was pelted by people in Bihar as a result of all the anger and frustration of lockdown.

CLAIM

A video is going viral on social media in which people can be seen pelting stones at a convoy of SUV’s and police jeeps. In the 2.30 minute video some police officers can be seen wounded vecause of the pelting. The caption with which the video is being circulated claims that the convoy attacked was the one in which Bihar CM Nitish Kumar was travelling. The particular incident is said to have happened because of Bihar government is failing to tackle the covid pandemic in the state.

Caption–

यह हैं हमारें बिहार के मुख्यमंत्री भाजपा संघी श्री नीतीश कुमार जो जगह जगह पर मार पिटाई पत्थर खाते घूम रहे हैं, और जनता को नैतिकता की पाठ पढ़ाते हैं, यह ही लाइक हैं जनता भूखे मर रही है यह साहब AC में हवा खा रहे थे जो हुआ क्या अच्छा हुआ🗨️🤹

Translation–

This is Bihar chief minister Sanghi Nitish Kumar who is going around getting pelted with stones and he teaches morality to people. He deserves this. People are dying of hunger and he is enjoying in AC

archive

The following video went viral on Facebook. It was posted on 7th May by the page ‘राजद छात्र युवा नेता प्रेम पवन यादव‘ and has over 3.6 million views and 37k shares.

archive

The following post was uploaded on 10th May under the page ‘Sadagrah’ and has garnered 3.2k views an 71 shares.

TRUTH

The video is 2 years old and this incident happened in Buxar District of Bihar and has no relation to current lock down.

The following coverage was found on the facebook page of “News18” in which the same video can be seen. This video was uploaded about 2 years ago.

The youtube channel of ANI news also reported this news. This video was uploaded on 12th January 2018. The video was uploaded with the following caption-

Both the news channel reported that the convoy of the Bihar CM was attacked by stone pelters during his “Samiksha Yatra” in Nandan village of Buxar district, Bihar.

The following fake claim was also busted by India Today.

Thus the following video is two years old and has no relation with the ongoing food shortage due to the covid pandemic in Bihar.

Related