An image of a woman scanning a QR code on a gravestone-like structure has gone viral with the claim that there are graves in Japan with QR codes, scanning which one can get information on the deceased’s life.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture was taken in 2015 at a theme park in Southwest China. These are not real gravestones. Visitors to the park can scan the QR codes on the structures to commemorate the victims of Nanjing Massacre and Bombing of Chongqing, both committed by Japanese troops in China during World War II.

advertisement

AFWA PROBE

We first tried to read the text written on the gravestone-like structures in the viral image. We found that the text is written in Chinese and not Japanese. “Victims of Nanjing Massacre,” says the text, according to Google translation.

Taking this as a clue, with the help of a combination of reverse image and keyword search, we found the truth behind the viral image. Several Chinese news websites ad published this image and articles related to it in 2015.

According to these articles, China had set up a memorial for World War II victims at a theme park called Foreigners’ Street in Chongqing municipality in 2015.

Here, visitors can pay respects to the victims by scanning the QR codes on the gravestone-like structures. This arrangement was made to commemorate victims of the Nanjing Massacre and Bombing of Chongqing, both committed by Japanese troops in China during World War II.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Video of temple demolition in Karnataka passed off as from Tamil Nadu

THE NANJING MASSACRE

Nanjing massacre refers to the mass killing and ravaging of Chinese citizens by soldiers of the Japanese Imperial Army after its seizure of Nanjing, China, on December 13, 1937, during the Sino-Japanese War that preceded World War II.

According to Britannica, the number of Chinese killed in the massacre has been subject to much debate, with most estimates ranging from 1,00,000 to more than 3,00,000.

BOMBING OF CHONGQUING

From February 18, 1938 to August 23, 1941, the Japanese Air Force had carried out more than 200 bombing raids on Chongqing, killing nearly 12,000 people, mostly civilians.

Thousands were killed on two horrendous days of bombing May 3 and 4, 1939. This massive terror bombing operations were authorised by the Empire of Japan, according to Chinese media reports.