A video is being widely shared on social media claiming it as recent visuals of Canadians assaulting Goldy Brar, the prime accused in the killing of popular Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Claim: Video of Canadians thrashing Sidhu Moose Wala’s murder accused Goldy Brar. Fact: The person who was assaulted by a mob in the video is Pakistan TikTok star Hassan Goldy, not the Sidhu Moose Wala’s murder accused Goldy Brar. This incident had recently taken place in Dubai. Hassan Goldy issued a clarification regarding this viral video mentioning that he was falsely portrayed as Goldy Brar on social media. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

When we searched on the internet for the details of this video using relevant keywords, we found a few Facebook posts mentioning the assaulted person as Hassan Goldy. Those posts can be seen here and here. These users shared the video mentioning it as a recent incident taken place in Dubai. Several local Punjabi news channels have also published articles and videos clarifying that the man assaulted in the viral video was Pakistan TikTok star, Hassan Goldy. These news channels reported that a video showing the attack on Hassan Goldy was misinterpreted on social media as the visuals of Canadians thrashing Goldy Brar.

On searching for further details, we found that Pakistan TikTok star Hassan Goldy had posted a video on his social media handles informing the details of the attack on him in Dubai. Hassan Goldy said he was assaulted by his close associates because of a personal dispute.

Hassan Goldy posted another video on his Instagram page and clarified that a video from the recent attack on him was misinterpreted on social media as visuals of Canadians assaulting Goldy Brar. Hassan Goldy informed it as fake news and requested users not to share such posts on social media. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the man assaulted in the video was Pakistan TikTok star Hassan Goldy, not Goldy Brar.

To sum it up, the man assaulted by a few people in the video is Pakistan TikTok star Hassan Goldy, not the Sidhu Moose Wala’s murder accused Goldy Brar.