Many people were elated over a social media claim that Finland's newly elected Prime Minister Sanna Marin had proposed the introduction of four-day and six-hour working week in Finland.

Many Facebook users welcomed the idea of "four-day working week" and have posted this information believing it to be true.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this to be a misleading post. The Finnish government has denied this claim and categorically said that this issue is not even in the government agenda.

This news of drastically short working hours and "four-day working week" regarding the Nordic nation giving credit to the newly elected and 34 years old Prime Minister Sanna Marin was lapped up by several mainstream media, initially.

Later, this misunderstanding regarding the misinformation was cleared by the Finnish government.

On January 7, 2020, the Finnish government tweeted saying that there is no mention of the four-day working week in the government's program.

They also clarified that the prime minister "envisioned idea briefly in a panel discussion last August while she was the minister of transport, and there hasn't been any recent activity".

In the Finnish Governmentôs program there is no mention about 4-day week. Issue is not on the Finnish Government's agenda. PM @marinsanna envisioned idea briefly in a panel discussion last August while she was the Minister of Transport, and there hasn't been any recent activity. Finnish Government (@FinGovernment) January 7, 2020

As per the news report of Associated Press (AP), last August during a panel debate at a Social Democratic Party's 120th anniversary, Sanna Marin, as party leader and the minister of transport envisioned this idea of short working hours and four-day working week, briefly.

As per AP news report, Marin said, "A four-day working week or a six-hour working day with a sufficient pay may be utopia today, but it may become reality in the future."

So the viral post claiming Finnish prime minister proposing a six-hour working day and four-day working week is not true.