After Team India's heartbreaking exit from the World Cup campaign, a million dollar question that is haunting fans is, will Mahendra Singh Dhoni continue his journey or hang up his gloves.

Well, the answer to this question lies with Thala (his South Indian fans call him fondly by this name) himself, but social media is flooded with a lot of emotional appeals and and some misleading posts.

advertisement

One such viral post on Facebook claims that BCCI has cancelled Dhoni's retirement from all formats.

It then makes a self-contradictory claim that the board has appointed him as "former captain of Indian team from next ODI series". It is a well-known fact that Dhoni was the captain of the Indian team and there is no way he can be appointed as "former captain".

AFWA found that the viral claim is baseless and factually incorrect.

However, it is understandable why this post has become viral since it expresses the immense love that fans have for the cricketer.

It was being speculated that Dhoni might announce his retirement at the end of the World Cup. But as of now, there is no evidence that Dhoni has made up her mind about this. On Dhoni's official Twitter, Facebook and Instagram handles, there is no such mention of him calling it quits yet.

Indian captain Virat Kohli has also clarified that the veteran has not told him anything about his future plans.

Also, we didn't found any reports suggesting BCCI cancelling his test retirement, as claimed in the viral post.

Considering the fact that Dhoni is already 38, many people think that probably it was Dhoni's last World Cup knock, but his fans don't want him to leave. Soon after Team India's dream of another cup crushed, #donotretiredhoni started trending on Twitter.

Even the Nightingale of Bollywood Lata Mangeshkar urged Dhoni not to retire as Team India needs him and his game.

Namaskar M S Dhoni ji.Aaj kal main sun rahi hun ke Aap retire hona chahte hain.Kripaya aap aisa mat sochiye.Desh ko aap ke khel ki zaroorat hai aur ye meri bhi request hai ki Retirement ka vichar bhi aap mann mein mat laayiye.@msdhoni Lata Mangeshkar (@mangeshkarlata) July 11, 2019

DHONI'S RETIREMENT FROM TEST CRICKET

Dhoni had announced his retirement from the test format on December 30, 2014, when India was playing against Australia. His retirement came in the middle of the series after India lost the second test and drew the third.

He left the limited overs (ODI and T20I) captaincy in January 2017 to hand over the reign to Virat Kohli, leaving everyone surprised.

Dhoni, who earned the fame as Caption Cool of Team India, has also played for Bihar, Jhardkhand, India A, Asia XI, IPL teams Chennai Super Kings and Rising Pune Supergiant.

MS Dhoni is the only captain in the world to lift all three ICC trophies: ICC Cricket World Cup 2011, ICC Champions Trophy 2013 and ICC World T20 2007.

Having featured in 350 One Day Internationals, Dhoni holds the record for most stumpings.