As the Russian invasion of Ukraine rages on, a video has gone viral on social media, allegedly depicting scenes from battlefields. The highly graphic footage, shot by a soldier, shows corpses of several Ukrainian soldiers lying amid destroyed vehicles and fire. The video also shows soldiers checking the dead bodies and removing inventory from them.

"Stop the war in Ukraine," proclaimed one Twitter user as they shared the video.

advertisement

Similar posts are archived here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this claim to be misleading. While the slain soldiers are Ukrainian, this video is not from the Russian invasion that began on February 24. This video has been in circulation for a long time now.

AFWA probe

When examined closely, we noticed the national flag of Ukraine on the uniform of one of the slain soldiers. So, we reverse searched the keyframes of the video on the Russian search engine Yandex.

Among the top results was a tweet by a user called @Torsy_2. "Russians remove trophies from the corpses of Ukrainian soldiers," read the tweet from February 18, 2018, along with an image of a dead soldier that seemed to be a screengrab from the viral video. This confirmed that the video is not recent.

Yandex also showed a report from the website “svobodaslova.info” that contained a similar screenshot. It was a video story with a brief Russian description. While the video is no longer available, the headline read, "Shock: the destruction of the Aidar column, summer 2014."

"A new video has been published showing the militia in the summer of 2014 destroying a convoy of the Aidar punitive battalion, notorious for torture and violence against civilians in the Luhansk People's Republic," the description read.

We checked and found that this caption was used across many video streaming websites in Russia while sharing the same video. One of these uploaded in June 2016 can be seen here.

The Aidar Battalion is an assault group belonging to the Ukrainian army that fought pro-Russian militias in the Luhansk region. Along with Donetsk, Luhansk was recognised as an independent republic by Russian President Vladimir Putin on February 21.

Several Russian news reports stated that militia groups in Luhansk managed to cripple the Aidar Battalion in 2014. If the videos are to be believed, it is not the Russian army, but members of the Moscow-backed militias of Luhansk who are seen around the fallen Ukrainian men.

However, it is clear that the video of Russian soldiers checking the bodies and kits of slain Ukrainian soldiers is not recent as claimed. This footage has been in circulation for many years and is therefore not from the ongoing invasion that began February 24.