Are EVMs being tampered with in Madhya Pradesh before the state goes for Lok Sabha elections?

Certain Facebook users such as 'Sekh Safi' and 'Rajib Ghoshal' put out posts in Bengali alleging that the BJP resorted to EVM tampering in Madhya Pradesh to tilt the results in its favour.

Screenshot of Facebook post by Rajib Ghoshal

India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the post refers to an old incident and is misleading.

advertisement

On April 10, 2019, Facebook user Sekh Safi posted that the BJP has started resorting to EVM tampering so that all votes are cast in its favour.

He went on to claim that the ruling party has carried out VVPAT tampering in such a way that the voting proportion turns out be 80:20 in the BJP's favour.

Here is the archive of the post.

Another Facebook user Rajib Ghoshal posted the same claim, stating, "Lakhs of EVMs are tampered with in this way; all kinds of fraudulent acts are being done; now they will be caught by the media."

The archive of the post can be seen here.

AFWA investigated the claims in detail. To start with, the first phase of Lok Sabha elections in MP will begin on April 29, but the post made on April 10 claims, "Twenty-four hours before voting starts in Madhya Pradesh..."

So the claim regarding the date turns out to be completely false as voting in MP will start much later, not 24 hours after April 10.

To verify the claim of EVM tampering, we did a thorough Google search by typing 'EVM tampering in Madhya Pradesh before Lok Sabha election 2019'. We found nothing as far as the claim is concerned.

We found several news reports on EVM tampering in Madhya Pradesh going back to 2018, which were related to the assembly elections and bypolls. There were reports in Indiatimes.com and Firstpost, apart from other newspapers and websites which clearly report on the issue.

In March 2018, the Madhya Pradesh government suspended the district collector and SP in connection with the tampering row. The Election Commission had also asked for a report on that.

India Today also reported another incident of EVM tampering in MP on December 1, 2018, saying that members of the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party guarded EVM machines to ensure that they don't get tampered with.

Though there are several reports of EVM tampering from MP in the past, there has been no such incident reported before this year's Lok Sabha elections as of now.

For further confirmation, we contacted our correspondent Hemendra Kumar Sharma, who is based in Bhopal. He confirmed that there has been no instance or any accusation of EVM tampering this year and the claim is totally false.