Has Israel found a cure for Covid-19 which could end the requirement for vaccination? Well, this is what some netizens are claiming on social media.

As evidence to this claim, they are sharing a video report about the clinical trial of a new anti-coronavirus drug developed in the Ichilov Hospital of Israel. In this report, Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu can be seen praising the efficacy of the drug. The report bears the logo of 'CBN News'.

advertisement

Sharing this video, a Facebook user wrote, "Israel found a cure for Covid without vaccination. Just 5 doses of the anti-Covid drug can cure a severe patient. Very soon it will be available and can end the pandemic."

The archived version of this post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that an anti-coronavirus drug, 'EXO-CD24' has indeed been developed in Israel which has shown promising results in its initial trial. However, it is incorrect to say that this drug would end the requirement for vaccination. Neither the researchers conducting trials on it, nor the Israeli government has given any such statement.

This video is extremely viral on Facebook and has left many puzzled.

AFWA probe

With the help of keyword search, we found the video report which is being shared with the viral claim on the Facebook page of 'CBN News'. Here, the report was posted on February 12th, 2021, with the caption, "An Israeli drug that has been successful in initial trials, could hold a key in blunting the COVID-19 pandemic. Thirty patients in serious condition participated in the trial and all recovered, most of them in less than a week. Sonya Cohen was one of them and she could one day be seen as a walking miracle."

The same report can be seen on the website of CBN News. This report talks about a drug called 'EXO-CD24' which was developed by the researchers of the 'Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center (Ichilov)' in Israel.

How does it work?

One of the main causes of clinical deterioration that leads to deaths in Covid-19 patients is the cytokine storm in the body. This is a condition in which the immune system goes out of control and starts attacking healthy cells of the body.

As per the 'US National library of medicines', 'EXO-CD24' drug developed by the 'Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center' of Israel helps calm down the immune system and curb the cytokine storm.

advertisement

The phase 1 trial of EXO-CD24 was performed on 30 patients who were in serious or moderate condition. According to 'The Times of Israel', 29 patients who participated in this trial showed significant improvement within 3-5 days. The 30th patient also showed improvement, but only after the initial five-day period.

A video celebrating the success of the 'EXO-CD24' drug's phase 1 trial was posted on the official Twitter handle of The State of Israel on Feb 11, 2021.

Meet the Israeli professor who may just have found a cure for COVID-19.



Watch @tasmc1 pic.twitter.com/zRLMFadhM1— Israel (@Israel) February 11, 2021

This drug has now been approved by the Israel Health Ministry for Phase 2 and 3 trials. In the next phase, a double-blind placebo trial would be conducted on around 150 patients.

Israel's vaccination drive

Israel was among the top countries which conducted the fastest Covid-19 vaccination drive. By March 2021, it had given at least one shot to nearly 60% of its residents, according to 'The Wall Street Journal'. With such a 'fast-paced vaccination drive,' Israel had ranked 5th in the 'Bloomberg world COVID resilience tracker'.

advertisement

Talking to 'The Jerusalem Post', Prof. Nadir Arber who led the 'EXO-CD24' drug research said, "Even if the vaccines do what they are supposed to, and even if no new mutations are produced, then still, in one way or another, coronavirus will remain with us."

We did not find any quote by 'Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center' or Israel government which claims that 'EXO-CD24' drug could eliminate the need for Covid-19 vaccination.

Moreover, 'EXO-CD24' drug is a medicine which is a part of Covid-19 disease treatment. On the other hand, Covid-19 vaccines are meant to prevent people from getting infected with the disease.

Thus, it is evident that the Israeli anti coronavirus drug 'EXO-CD24' wouldn't eliminate the need for Covid-19 vaccination. The drug is currently in the trial stage and has shown positive results in the first phase.