Amid the widespread violent protest against the Centre's Agnipath Scheme, a photo has gone viral that shows a group of policemen beating a man wearing a saffron t-shirt.

Many shared the photo on social media with the claim that this man was Muslim. The claims also said that he was a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia who had studied till the third grade and was arrested for setting a train on fire during the aforementioned protests.

advertisement

claimed that his name was Mohammed Aslam. People alsowas Mohammed Aslam.

AFWA’s investigation found that although this man was present at Ballia Railway Station on June 17 during a protest against the Agnipath Scheme, he was not arrested. The police do not have any details about this man.

Archived versions of posts with a similar claim can be seen here and here.

AFWA Probe

While investigating the claim, we first reverse searched the image. But it yielded no result apart from social media posts with similar claims.

Subsequently, we got in touch with Anil Akela, Aaj Tak’s correspondent in the Ballia district. Akela said that this photo was a screengrab from a video that was shot on the morning of June 17 at the Ballia Railway Station.

“Around 6 am on June 17, protestors gathered at the Ballia Railway Station. We spotted this man around 6.45 am,” said Akela. He added that like many other protestors, this man was ejected from the railway station by cops and that the train was set on fire at the station much later.

According to media reports, in Ballia, police lodged FIRs against 400 unidentified persons in connection with the protests. More than 100 people have been arrested.

Was this man also arrested?

To get to the bottom of this, we got in touch with Raj Karan Nayyar, the SP in Ballia. “Photo of a man is going around on social media with baseless claims. We had not arrested this man,” Nayyar told India Today.

So, while we could not verify details about the man’s identity, we can say that the claim with this photo is misleading. The man in this photo was present during the protest against Agnipath Scheme on June 17. But he was not arrested.