The video is from 2017 when Bengal’s BJP President Dilip Ghosh was attacked during his visit to Darjeeling.

As the dates of polling in UP are coming closer, political misinformation has mushroomed on social media platforms. In the past few days, we have seen many a posts targeting the ruling BJP by sharing purported videos/images of public outrage.

In the backdrop, a video showing a mob running behind a man who clad in white Kurta and golden jacket with a saffron scarf around his neck. Users claim that the video shows public outrage in Uttar Pradesh where people are thrashing BJP leaders who are visiting to seek votes ahead of the elections. This video is widely being shared in the context of the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh.

We can hear Bhojpuri song in the background of the video. We found several users sharing this video sarcastically claiming that this is how BJP leaders are being welcomed in Uttar Pradesh.

The caption of the post mentions, “In Uttar Pradesh, BJP people seeking votes are being thrashed in broad daylight in Bhojpuri singer Nirahua’s style.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

The video is widely being circulated on Facebook.

ALSO READ: Old video of people stopping Smriti Irani’s car in UP shared in context of recent campaign for UP elections

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by carefully observing the video, where we found the logo of ‘NMF News’ on the top right corner of the video. Next, we ran a keyword search on YouTube which led us to same video published by the NMF News on 6 October 2017. The headline of the video states “Bengal BJP Chief Dilip Ghosh thrashed in Darjeeling, BJP workers thrashed.”

According to the report, the activists of anti Bimal Gurung faction of Gorkhaland Janmukti Morcha allegedly manhandled Bharatiya Janta Party’s Bengal president Dilip Ghosh in Darjeeling. Gurung is the president of the Morcha. Dilip Ghosh was in Darjeeling to meet the leaders’ of Gurung’s faction and hold a Vijaya Sammilani programme. The state president was attacked by a group of Morcha supporters allegedly belonging to the faction of Benoy Tamang.

ABP News also published this video in October 2017 that stated that BJP President Dilip Ghosh was attacked in Darjeeling.

According to the Economic Times, the activists of anti Bimal Gurung faction of Gorkhaland Janmukti Morcha assaulted BJP leader. The BJP leaders including Ghosh and supporters were allegedly beaten up near Chowrasta. Later Ghosh with his workers went to the police station and lodged an FIR. You can read the New Indian Express’s report on this incident here.

ALSO READ: Video from Bengal shared as BJP leaders chased away in Uttar Pradesh

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found claim made along with the video on social media to be False. The viral video does not show BJP leaders being driven away by the people of Uttar Pradesh. The video dates back to 2017 when Bengal’s BJP President Dilip Ghosh was attacked during his visit in Darjeeling. The video has no relation with the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh.

ALSO READ: Image from Rajasthan viral as BJP leader thrashed in Uttar Pradesh while asking for votes

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)