To connect voters more effectively, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed an election rally at Patan in Gujrati on Sunday. But a short video clip of his speech from this rally is getting viral on social media for all the wrong reason. Some social media users claim that PM Modi has used abusive words in his address.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral claim is totally false as PM Modi did not use any offensive word. An hurriedly spoken Gujarati word by the Prime minister has been repeatedly used in the viral video to create the confusion.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Facebook user "Gaurav Pandhi" posted a 15-second video clip with the caption, "Modi said 'BC' at a rally". He also wrote in his post "What kind of language is this Mr PM? Does it beholds the Prime Minister of the country to use profanity and that too publicly? Shocking beyond belief!! Have some respect for the chair, if nothing else."

In the viral video PM can be heard talking about water problems in Gujarati. A particular word in the video is edited and used repeatedly to create the confusion.

Pandhi also posted the same on Twitter.

What kind of language is this Mr. PM? Does it beholds the Prime Minister of the country to use profanity and that too publicly? Shocking beyond belief !! Have some respect for the chair, if nothing else. pic.twitter.com/tVrHVbSlek Gaurav Pandhi (@GauravPandhi) April 21, 2019

On his twitter bio Gaurav Pandhi claimed himself to be a Political analyst and Congress supporter.

His post has been retweeted more than 1,000 times at the time of writing this story.

Among others, the Facebook user "Varun Singh" and "Akbar Owaisi" also shared the same video.

In his original address, PM Modi said in fluent Gujarati: "Loko em kahe chhe bhavishya ma ladai pani ni thavain che, alya, badha kaho chho pani ladai thavain cheo toh pachi paani pela paal kem naa bandhiye" PM quoted a phrase in Gujarati which means: "If we know that there will be a fight over water in the future, then why not take precautions."

Video of the speech can be seen here.

In the viral video the words "ladai Thavain che" in Gujarati has been repeated many times. When we check the particular words in Gujarati on Google translate, we found that these words mean "Fight about to happen".

Some users had also pointed it out on Twitter.