A video clip of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is being shared on social media with a claim that the protest, which took place following the announcement of the Agnipath scheme, was planned by the Congress.

The post reads:“#RahulGandhi #creator #Voilance of #Agnipath#वीर# Armylovers# stopvoilance”

The text embedded in the video reads: ” पहले से प्लान था कांग्रेसका और विपक्षी जितने भी पार्टी सबका #अग्निपथयोजना India has, indeed, been set on fire.” (English translation: Congress and all the opposition parties had planned this beforehand #AgneepathScheme)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the video, and found it to be fake.

We noticed that the video had a date and location tag: May 15, 2022, Udaipur, Rajasthan.

Based on this, we ran a keyword search and found the original video on the official YouTube channel of Indian National Congress. The video was uploaded on May 15, 2022, with the title: “Shri Rahul Gandhi’s valedictory address at the ‘Nav Sankalp Chintan Shivir’, Udaipur.”

In the original video, the viral clip can be heard at 32:22 minutes. He can be heard saying: “Our fight is for ideology. It’s not an easy fight and this is not even a political fight. This is a fight for the future of the country and a fight to save the country. And you will see, now this fight has started. In the coming time, you will see, there will be a fire in India. I spoke of COVID-19, remember. I’m telling you the more they destroy institutions, the more they suppress conversations between our states, between religions, and between castes, and the more the fire will be. And the job of the Congress party is to restart these conversations. Our job is to protect this institution.”

From the above information, it is clear that Rahul Gandhi was not talking about the Agnipath scheme, which was approved by Central government on June 14, 2022.

Hence, it can be concluded that the post is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news