A photo is being shared on social media claiming it is a picture of BJP leaders partying in Goa. This photo shows BJP Telangana leader G. Kishan Reddy posing along with Shandilya Giriraj Singh, Kailash Choudhary and other BJP leaders. Comparing this image with a few other pictures showing TRS party leaders interacting with the flood victims, this post claims it as the difference between the BJP and the TRS when it comes to the concern over the flood victims. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Claim: Recent photo of BJP leaders partying in Goa while many parts of the country are reeling in floods. Fact: The photo shared in the post was captured during the recent BJP Parliamentary party meeting held on 16 July 2022, in New Delhi. The photo does not show BJP leaders in Goa. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.

When we searched for this photo using relevant keywords on the internet, we found the same photo on the official Twitter handle of BJP leader and Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy. Kishan Reddy tweeted this photo describing it as a selfie taken with Shandilya Giriraj Singh, Kailash Choudhary, SS Ahluwalia and other prominent BJP leaders during the BJP Parliamentary party meeting held on 16 July 2022, in New Delhi.

With Hon’ble Ministerial & MP colleagues Shri @girirajsinghbjp ji, Shri @KailashBaytu ji, Shri @SSAhluwaliaMP ji at the @BJP4India Parliamentary party meeting in New Delhi. pic.twitter.com/dACSBkIwDN — G Kishan Reddy (@kishanreddybjp) July 16, 2022

BJP MP SS Ahluwalia retweeted this tweet by Kishan Reddy. Several other BJP leaders who participated in the BJP Parliamentary Party meeting have also shared the pictures taken by them at the meeting. They can be seen here, here and here. A photo tweeted by BJP MP Pratap Simha shows the same visuals of Shandilya Giriraj Singh and Kailash Choudhary sitting together in the last row of the meeting hall.

Amid the ongoing continuous & heavy rainfall in several parts of Telangana, BJP leaders Bandi Sanjay and Dharmapuri Aravind have also visited rain-affected regions and interacted with the flood victims.

Visited Charlabhutkur village in my Constituency & inquired about problems people were facing due to rains. I request govt to provide all possible support to the people who have been affected due to rains. Urged people to be more careful as it is raining incessantly. pic.twitter.com/00ZTV15vnR — Bandi Sanjay Kumar (@bandisanjay_bjp) July 12, 2022

To sum it up, a photo taken during the BJP Parliamentary Party meeting in Delhi is shared as BJP leaders partying in Goa while many parts of the Telangana are reeling under floods.