Thousands of farmers protesting against the three new agriculture laws had earlier this month announced that they'll hold a tractor rally on January 26, India's Republic Day, to further intensify the agitation. Some of the farmers also took part in tractor rallies on expressways surrounding Delhi on January 7, calling it a rehearsal ahead of the main event.

Amid this, a 59-second video of a stunning tractor rally is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows the preparation for the upcoming tractor rally by farmers. The caption in Hindi with one such video translates to, "Preparations for the January 26 parade are complete. Jai Kisan".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video is from a charity event held in Germany, and has been in circulation on social media since at least December 2020. This is before the farmers announced the tractor march on January 2, 2021.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

According to news reports, the protesting farmers' unions in India had announced the tractor parade only on January 2, 2021.

However, with the help of keyword search, we found that the viral video has been available on several social media platforms since at least December 2020.

We found that a longer and clearer version of the same video was uploaded on December 16, 2020, on the Facebook page "Delta Agribusiness" (https://www.facebook.com/DeltaAgribusiness/videos/210212367424340/).

On closely observing the video, one can see that the tractors are decorated with Christmas lights, Christmas trees, reindeers and snowman. Also, we could not find any credible report on tractor rallies organised in India in the context of Christmas as seen in the viral video.

A number plate on one of the vehicles seen in the video reads "OD TP 112", and this matches with vehicle number plates (https://www.customeuropeanplates.com/german-license-plate-codes) of Germany. Also, 'OD' represents the northern German town of Bad Oldesloe.

International fact-check website AFP had also published an article confirming the video to be from Germany. AFP spoke to Burchardt Transporte, a north Germany-based transport firm whose name can be seen on one of the vehicles in the viral video.

Speaking to AFP, the firm's managers Jens Burchardt confirmed that the video showed a charity event held for children's cancer aid in Germany on December 6, 2020. We also found a similar video posted by Facebook page "rtntvnews" which said the video was shot in Germany on December 6 for children with cancer.

Hence, it is clear that the video is from a charity event held in Germany during Christmas 2020. It has been in circulation even before the farmers' unions in India announced the January 26 tractor rally.

advertisement

(Update: An earlier version of this story reported that the video in question is from Ireland where similar tractor runs are held during Christmas. We later got concrete evidence that the video is from Germany. The article has been updated accordingly.)

Also read: Fact Check: No board exams in Bengal this year? Mamata’s edited clip goes viral