A video has surfaced on social media platforms showing a group of men attacking police personnel and their vehicle. The post claims that the video is from Bihar and is linked to recent protests against the ‘Agnipath’ scheme launched by the Centre.

The video is being shred with the text, “अग्निपथ वापसी लो नहीं तो अईसे हीं होंगा बिहार में आपका स्वागत है. जिया हों बिहार के लाला”

(English Translation: Take back Agnipath or else this will continue to happen.. Welcome to Bihar. Live the son of Bihar [song lyrics])

Here’s the link to the post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above post and found it to be shared with a false claim.

With the help of a relevant keyword search on Google, we found a video uploaded by ONA Khabar on January 14, with the title, “Protest over the man’s death At Bhadrak.”

Similar visuals were recorded from a different angle and were also found in a report by Kanak News. As per the report, the incident is from Bhadrak, Odisha where locals had attacked and torched a police vehicle over an alleged suspect’s death after his body was found floating in a pond in the village.

A comparison between the keyframes of the viral video and news report reveals that they show the same incident.

Sambad English also reported the incident stating that Bapi Mahalik of Hatuari village was detained by police for questioning in connection with the case. However, his body was later found floating in a pond in the village.

‘Irate locals torched a vehicle in which cops had come to the locality. They also blocked Bhadrak-Chandbali road at Alinagar by placing the body on road’, the report further adds.

NewsMobile debunked the same video in May 2021, when it was linked to post-poll violence in West Bengal.

https://newsmobile.in/articles/2021/05/04/fact-check-old-unrelated-video-from-odisha-falsely-shared-as-that-of-post-poll-violence-in-west-bengal/

Therefore, we can conclude that an old video from Bhadrak, Odisha, dating back to January 2021, is falsely being linked to protests over ‘Agnipath’ Scheme.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news