One of the main attractions of this year's Aero India show was the Rafale aircraft. Just at the conclusion of the air show, social media went gaga with a viral video of an aircraft doing spectacular stunts. Netizens claim that this is the "Rafale plane for which India has struck a deal with France".

India Today Anti Fake News War room (Afwa) found that the plane was not the Rafale fighter aircraft, but a remote-controlled turbine jet toy plane.

advertisement

A Facebook user Kiran Kumar posted a video of a multicolored aircraft doing all sorts of amazing stunts in the air.

The caption of the viral post reads, "That's the Rafale fighter plane for which India has done a deal with France!... Don't miss the ending - Awesome !! Your heart in your mouth OMG !"

Towards the end of this 2.50 minute-long video the aircraft, while still in the air, stands perpendicular to the runway, so precariously close to the ground that its shadow is visible.

The video with the same caption has been posted by many other users on Facebook, YouTube and shared widely on messaging apps like WhatsApp.

This viral post can be found on the pages of several individual Facebook users like Umesh Mihani, Chandran Raj, Syed Amanulla.

Looking carefully at the viral video, just towards the end before the perpendicular-to-the-ground stunt, we found "Flex" written in red on the tail of the aircraft.

Searching keywords like "Flex planes" on YouTube, we found many such stunt videos of aircrafts and most of them mentioned the name "Flex Innovations".

"Flex Innovations" is an internationally renowned company which makes aircraft control systems, toys, electronics, and radio-controlled (RC) hobby products. We found the original longer version of the same video which has gone viral on the company's website.

The 6.29 minute-long video was uploaded on YouTube on August 19, 2016 by "Flex innovations" with the title "Premier Aircraft F-16QQ PNP and a description "Quique flies the F-16QQ on a hot day in August, Venice, FL!".





This particular aircraft F-16QQ PNP is also available for sale on the website and costs nearly Rs 6 lakh.

The product description says that this F-16QQ turbine jet offers an unprecedented level of 3D maneuverability "modified by the 3D godfather and world champion Quique Somenzini". At the end of the original video, we can see the remote-controlling pilot and designer Quique Somenzini with the toy aircraft.

Last year, Boom live had debunked a similar claim.

advertisement

Also read | Fact Check: PM Modi never said 33 crore bank accounts were opened in Chhattisgarh alone

Also read | Fact Check: The viral video about bomb at Delhi metro was not a mock drill

Also read | Fact Check: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath didn't laugh at martyr's funeral

Also read | Fact Check: The Alphons picture attracting trolls is no selfie with Pulwama martyr