A video of a child kidnapping is going viral on social media. In the video, a person dressed in a niqab came toward a child sitting on the roadside. Apparently, the child gave the niqab-clad woman some money then she touched the child’s shoulder. And, then the child got fainted and another man came with an auto-rickshaw(tuk-tuk). They took away the child on the rikshaw.

Further, social media users are sharing this video with different captions. Giving the incident a communal angle, a Twitter user @Youram1208, shared the video with the caption, “In view of such incidents #IStandWithKapilMishra because these incidents are going to shock, as much as a Hindu wants to live with positive vibes, but the Mull@hs living in India will not allow Hindus to live with peace, #ढोंगी_राष्ट्रवादी #HinduInsultNotArt #ArrestTasleemRahmani

Similarly, another user AZAD ARMY shared the viral video on Facebook with the caption, “Save and alert children from such gangs Save and warn children from such gangs.”

(ऐसे गिरोहों से बच्चों को बचाएँ और सावधान करें)

In the same vein, many other social media users have shared this video with the similar claim.

Using InVID tool and reverse image search on different frame. According to these reports, the Ministry of the Interior reveals the mystery of the video of the “niqab” that caused panic in the social media.

Moreover, we also got a tweet from the verified account of the @moiegy which clarifies that, “#وزارة_الداخلية revealed the circumstances of the circulation of a fake video clip on social media of a veiled woman kidnapping a child inside a “tuk-tuk” vehicle after he was drugged with a pin in his shoulder with the help of others.”

According to the local reports, all four people who were involved in the incident were the residents of Girga, a city in the Sohag Governorate of Upper Egypt. The person in Niqab is a man. And, the viral video is scripted.

Conclusion

Therefore, the viral video is scripted and not related to India. It is from Egypt. Hence, the claim of the users related to this video is misleading.