As petrol and diesel prices touch a record high in India, an image of long lines of stranded cars is being circulated on social media with the claim that people in Germany protested against fuel price hike by abandoning their vehicles in the middle of the road.

Several Facebook users shared the picture and suggested that India should have a similar protest against the Narendra Modi government. The Hindi text superimposed on the image translates to, “In Germany, people abandoned their cars in the middle of the road to protest fuel price hike. After seeing 10 lakh cars standing still on the road, the German government reduced fuel prices.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that though there have been several protests in Germany against fuel prices in the past, the picture used is of a massive traffic jam in China’s Shenzhen city in 2012.

AFWA investigation

With the help of reverse search, we found that the viral image is available for sale, along with other pictures, on “rexfeatures.com”.

The picture caption says, “Traffic chaos during Mid-Autumn Festival and National Day celebrations in China - 30 Sep 2012. People stand next to their cars during a traffic jam in Shenzhen city, Guangdong province 30 Sep 2012”.

In this original photo, Chinese characters on signboards alongside the road are visible. The same group of people standing in the same posture and dress in the viral image can also be found in the original photo.

The same image was used by “The Telegraph” on October 1, 2012, in an article on the traffic jam. The article said that the government had granted free road travel during the holidays in China.

This massive jam was also reported by other international news websites.

Germany has witnessed protests against fuel price hike several times in the past. As per reports, traffic was brought to a standstill in some German cities in 2000 in protest against fuel price hike.

But the viral image is not related to any protest in Germany. It is of a massive traffic jam in 2012 in Shenzhen city in China’s Guangdong province. AFP Fact Check had debunked a similar claim earlier.