Elections to the 28-member Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council were held on April 6 and the results declared on April 10.

Meanwhile, a video showing a man helping voters inside a polling booth is circulating on social media with the claim that this was how the ADC polling was conducted. Text embedded in the video in Bangla translates to, “This is the real picture of ADC polls in Tripura. Did the BJP just call this fair and peaceful election?”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video has no connection with Tripura. It was shot during the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 inside a polling booth in West Bengal’s Bolpur constituency.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

While investigating the video, one thing that struck us the most was that none of the voters or polling agents was wearing masks. This has been made mandatory for all elections conducted in the post-Covid situation.

Reverse-searching keyframes of the video, we found that the same clip was posted on Facebook on April 30, 2019. The Bangla claim along with the video said, “Hidden camera reveals how the ruling party is rigging polls inside the booth. Video shot inside Amgaria polling booth under Ketugram MLA constituency and Bolpur MP constituency.”

Taking this as a cue, we did a keyword search and found a report with the same video on the prominent Bangla news channel “ABP Ananda”. The report uploaded on May 9, 2019, said, “False votes being cast in the presence of polling agents. The video was shot inside a polling booth at Ketugram under Bolpur MP constituency. Election Commission has ordered re-poll.”

A further search led us to another report by “The Quint” published on May 9, 2019, which said the Election Commission had announced a re-poll at polling booth number 52 at Ketugram in West Bengal’s Bolpur Lok Sabha constituency. Re-polling will be held on May 12 from 7 am to 6 pm. This parliamentary constituency had voted in the fourth phase on April 29.”

Therefore, it is clear that the viral video is from West Bengal, and it was shot inside a polling booth under Bolpur Lok Sabha constituency during the 2019 general elections. It does not have any connection with the recently concluded ADC polls in Tripura.

A newly formed alliance of indigenous parties swept the ADC polls, winning 18 of the 28 seats. The alliance Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance or TIPRA is led by former state Congress president Pradyot Kishore Deb Barman. The ruling BJP won nine seats, while one seat went to an independent candidate.

advertisement

READ | Fact Check: TMC to win 26 of 30 Phase 1 seats in Bengal? Viral opinion poll screenshot is fake

READ | Fact Check: This video of BJP workers attacking a house is not from Bengal