Manipur's Mirabai Chanu won a silver medal in the 49kg weightlifting category at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics on July 24. She is the first Indian weightlifter to win the silver medal at the Olympic Games.

After she returned to India to a grand welcome and was felicitated by union ministers, an image from the ceremony is viral on social media. The viral post shows a banner, purportedly thanking PM Narendra Modi for awarding an Olympic medal to Mirabai. We can also see the images of PM Modi and Mirabai on the banner.

advertisement

The Hindi text on the banner translates to, “Thank you Modi ji for giving a medal to Mirabai Chanu.”

The image is circulated on social media with the caption in Hindi that translates to, “Look at the background of the photo and read what’s written. Meera Bai Chanu has brought the medal by hard work, or Modi ji has given it? If so, then Modiji should give medals to the entire team!”

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the image in circulation is morphed. While the original banner has the image of PM Modi, there was no Hindi text on it “thanking” him for Mirabai’s Olympic medal.

AFWA probe

With the help of appropriate keywords, we found the original version of the image in question carried in a press release by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports on July 27.

Comparing the banner in this image to the one in question, we can clearly understand that the line “Thank you Modi ji for getting Mirabai Chanu a medal” was not present on the original banner.

According to the ministry's press release, the image was part of the felicitation ceremony held by Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur at his residence for Mirabai and her coach Vijay Sharma on July 27. Union Ministers Kiren Rijiju, Kishan Reddy, and Sarbananda were also present at the event.

Press Information Bureau (PIB) has also shared videos and images from the event on its Twitter, Facebook and Instagram handles.

A historic decision taken to establish National Sports University in Manipur was another big achievement for the northeast region.



I congratulate @mirabai_chanu on behalf of 135 crore Indians and the Parliament, for her achievement - Union Minister @ianuragthakur pic.twitter.com/r8fGNbheE5 — PIB India (@PIB_India) July 26, 2021

It is hence clear that the image in question is morphed and the original banner by the ministry does not thank PM Modi for Mirabai’s silver medal.