TATA group did not transfer Swati Kovind to the ground department due to security reasons. She was deputed from the cabin crew to the ground department in 2017.

An image showing two airhostess standing beside an Air India flight is widely circulating on social media with the claim that the image shows President Kovind’s daughter whom the TATA authorities recently transferred to internal affairs from a flight attendant in Air India. The post claims that the transfer was made due to security reasons.

Facebook Post

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google, whose results led us to a similar image published by Getty Images. The image was captured in December 2006 stating Air India’s airhostesses wearing their new uniform atop the Air India flight, during the delivery of the Boeing 737-800 Commercial Jetliner for Air India in New Delhi on 06 November 2006.

The description of the post reads, “New Delhi, INDIA: Air India air hostesses, wear their new uniform atop the Air India flight, during the delivery of the Boeing 737-800 Commercial Jetliner for Air India in New Delhi, 06 November 2006. Air India celebrated the delivery of the first of its planned order of 68 Boeing jetliners, the Boeing Next Generation 737-800 Commercial Jetliner, at the Indhira Gandhi International Airport. AFP PHOTO/RAVEENDRAN”

Nowhere in the description of the image is mentioned that the airhostess is President Ramnath Kovind’s daughter Swati Kovind.

Next, we searched for President Kovind’s daughter Swati’s image and found that the she look very different from the viral image. You can see a comparison image below.

You can watch Swati Kovind’s video interview below.

Was Swati Kovind transferred to ground department after TATA authorities took over Air India?

We found several news reports in 2017 that stated that President Ram Nath Kovind’s daughter Swati Kovind, was a cabin crew on Air India’s long-haul Boeing 787 and Boeing 777 flights. According to the airline’s spokesperson, she has been deputed with Air India’s integration department at the airline’s headquarters due to security reasons.

We also found that the TATA group purchased Air India from the Government of India and took over the management of the airline in January 2022. Thus, it is clear that the TATA group did not transfer President Kovind’s daughter. She was deputed to the ground department due to security reasons in 2017.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the made along with the image to be Partly False. The image does not show President Ramnath Kovind’s daughter Swati Kovind. In addition, the TATA group did not transfer Swati Kovind to the ground department due to security reasons. She was deputed from the cabin crew to the ground department in 2017.