A viral message on social media claims that the Delhi high court has ordered release of all protesters held by Delhi Police during the ongoing farmers’ movement. Delhi Police has arrested and detained several people in connection with the violence on January 26 during the farmers’ tractor rally.

Multiple Facebook users have shared a post in Hindi which translates to, “Delhi high court has ordered the release of all farmer friends held by Delhi Police. Hail farmers’ unity. Long live the annadata.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that till the time of filing this report, there was no such order by the Delhi high court. Delhi Police has also confirmed the same.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

What AFWA found

A Delhi HC order on release of all protesters held during the ongoing farmers’ agitation would have surely made news. However, we could not find any credible news report on the same.

India Today reached out to Delhi Police to enquire about the matter. Delhi Police spokesperson and DCP (Crime) Chinmay Biswal confirmed to us that there is no such order from the high court. “It is fake news,” the officer added and requested India Today to share the viral post with their IT cell.

On the contrary, we found news reports saying that the Delhi high court on February 2 had dismissed a petition seeking the release of persons detained “illegally” by Delhi Police in connection with the January 26 violence from areas in and around Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur borders of the Capital. The high court also “directed the investigating agency to conclude the probe in the FIRs already lodged as early as possible.”

The petitioner of the case was Harman Preet Singh. India Today reached out to advocate Ashima Mandla who represented Harman Preet. She confirmed to us that her petition seeking the release of people arrested or detained by Delhi Police in connection with the Republic Day incident was not entertained by Delhi HC.

As per media reports, 122 persons have been arrested by Delhi Police and 44 FIRs registered so far on the January 26 tractor rally violence. “The Delhi HC dismissed the petition since nothing is known to the petitioner about the nature of allegations in the FIRs,” Mandla said. She also confirmed that till now, the Delhi high court has not given any order to release the protesters.

Therefore, it is confirmed that the viral post claiming that Delhi high court has ordered Delhi Police to release all protesters held during the ongoing farmers’ agitation is not true.

advertisement

READ | Fact Check: Undertaker would rise from the dead after this morphed tweet in support of farmers

READ | Fact Check: Was Sharad Pawar slapped in public for his statement on Tendulkar?

READ | Fact Check: Morphed photo shows Congress workers offering cake to Mia Khalifa's poster

READ | Fact Check: This video of liquor distribution is not from farmers’ protest