Stipends for priests and imams have always been a thorny issue in India. However, more and more states have announced allowances for religious figures a step endorsed by some and disapproved by others.

More recently, a postcard circulating on social media claims the Himanta Biswa Sarma government in Assam will now provide financial aid worth Rs 15,000 to temple priests every month.

advertisement

The text in Hindi translates to, “The Himanta Biswa Sarma government in Assam has decided to provide financial aid worth Rs 15,000 to temple priests every month. At least there’s someone after Yogi ji who’s bothered about Hindus. Kudos to Yogi ji and Himanta dada.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The Assam government did announce financial help for priests recently, but it is a one-time aid and not a monthly stipend. Also, there are conditions the beneficiaries need to meet to get the money.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Using keywords, we searched the Internet for news reports on the issue and came across an article published by “India Today” on November 5.

The article says the Assam government will provide a “one-time financial grant” of Rs 15,000 to temple priests who faced difficulties during the pandemic. State health minister Keshab Mahanta had announced the same after a cabinet meeting on November 4.

On the same day, Sarma tweeted three infographics on key decisions taken at the cabinet meet. The second postcard, which mentions about the aid to temple priests and namghorias of namghors (Vaishnavite place of worship), reiterates that it is a one-time grant.

Using keywords in Assamese, we found the video of Keshab Mahanta’s press conference.

The minister says in Assamese, “Priests and Namghorias faced several difficulties managing their livelihood during the Covid-19 pandemic when our temples and namghors were closed. Keeping this in mind, I have decided to give them a one-time aid of Rs 15,000.”

Adding a few conditions to this, Mahanta said the beneficiary has to be a permanent resident and member of the temple or namghor committee. The said committee will also have to confirm the applicant’s identity. One needs to be at least 40 years old to avail the benefit. Also, while applying, the applicants have to mention their annual income which can’t exceed Rs 3 lakh. An online portal will be opened for registration, whose details will be advertised later, he added.

advertisement

Therefore, it is clear that the Assam government has not announced any monthly aid for priests as is being claimed.

(Inputs from Riddhish Dutta in Kolkata)