A purported cover of TIME magazine with PM Narendra Modi's image and "Delete Fascism" written on it is viral on social media, with netizens taking a dig at the Prime Minister.



Among others, Hasiba Amin, whose Twitter bio says she's the national convenor of Congress's social media cell, also posted the picture.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is morphed. In the original image, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg's picture can be seen with "Delete Facebook" written on it.

AFWA probe

The date mentioned on the viral cover is "Oct. 25/ Nov. 1, 2021". Using this as a clue, we found a cover that was posted on the Facebook page of TIME magazine on October 8, 2021.



The same cover can be seen on the official website of TIME magazine as well.

This cover features an image of Mark Zuckerberg with "Delete Facebook" written on it. Clearly, the picture and text have been replaced in the viral image as everything else on the cover remains the same.

A comparison between the two covers shows the similarities between them.

On the bottom left-hand side of the morphed cover, titles of two articles with their author names can be seen. While one reads "Inside the Damage" by Billy Perrico, the other reads "Change Can't Wait" by Roger Mc Namee. Both the names can be seen in the original cover as well, the only difference being 'Perrigo' is misspelt as 'Perrico' in the morphed one.

Billy Perigo is a journalist with TIME and he'd tweeted about his story being on the cover of the magazine.

Frances Haugen was a member of a team at Facebook that was guided by an oath to put the public interest ahead of the company.



In December 2020, Facebook dissolved the team. It led Haugen to blow the whistle.



My cover story for TIME:https://t.co/11EFFnAYBa — Billy Perrigo (@billyperrigo) October 7, 2021

To sum it up, a morphed magazine cover with PM Modi's image is being believed by many to be an original cover of TIME magazine.