A video is going viral on social media showing a man wearing a mask, advising people to drink a lot of water and gargle with warm water mixed with salt or vinegar to kill coronavirus. It is being claimed that the man in the video is a doctor from Sir Ganga Ram hospital in Delhi.

A Facebook user Nitin Jain uploaded the video with a caption in Hindi which translates to: “A doctor from Ganga Ram hospital has given very good information”. The video has been shared by more than 5,300 people at the time of filing this story.

advertisement

The archive version of the video can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim with the video to be false. The video was made by a TikTok user.

Authorities at Ganga Ram hospital have said that the video is being falsely attributed to them. The hospital also disassociated itself from any claim made in the viral video.

Also, there is no study to prove that drinking lots of water or gargling with warm water can kill Covid-19. Though it is true that warm salt water has long been used as a home remedy to soothe a sore throat, but till now, there is no evidence that it can also ward off the novel coronavirus.

AFWA had debunked this claim earlier too.

The Press Information Bureau (PIB) had also debunked this rumour that coronavirus can be treated by gargling with warm water mixed with salt and vinegar.

#Coronavirus CANNOT be treated by gargling with warm water mixed with salt and vinegar.



This is #fakenews circulating on social media and WhatsApp.



For authentic information on #Coronavirusoutbreak, follow @PIB_India and @MoHFW_INDIA #PIBFactCheck #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/gKUGDBqR9Q — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) March 16, 2020

Who is the man in the video?

The viral video also shows a TikTok account @subhashayada. Through this account, we found that the video was made by a TikTok user Subhash A Yadav. However, the video is not available on his account anymore. We tried to contact Subhash via message and his response will be updated in the story once received.