Pakistan-born British politician Nazir Ahmed has put out a series of scathing tweets against India on the Kashmir issue in the wake of the abrogation of Article 370. One such tweet by Ahmed is about Canada refusing visas to Indian Army Generals and Brigadiers.

The Claim

Ahmed tweeted a video of news channel Headlines Today (now renamed as 'India Today') and said, "Canada refuses visa for Indian Army Generals and Brigadiers who served as intelligence officers for their part in #Kashmir: thank you @JustinTrudeau for your brave stance."

advertisement

The post has been retweeted more than 5,000 times at the last count. The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

Ahmed soon reposted the video and said, "Rogue Indian Army is exposed." Here's is the archived version of the post.

This tweet was picked up by web portal Pakistan Today and soon some Facebook users too shared the same claim.

The Truth

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is more than nine years old. The video used by Ahmed is of Headlines Today, which was renamed as India Today in 2015.

In the viral video, retired Lt-Gen Amrik Bahia, a highly decorated officer of the Indian Army, is mentioned. AFWA searched the Internet for Canada visa issue associated with his name and found that he was indeed denied a visa to the maple country but it was in 2010. The Times of India report of that year had highlighted the issue. According to these reports, he and others were denied visas on the basis of reports from some international human rights organisations, alleging human rights violations in Kashmir by armed forces.

Many Twitter users also pointed out to Ahmed for using the old video. India in 2010 had lodged strong protests against such visa denials, following which Canada issued an apology.

According to reports, Canadian visa officials had broadly interpreted a rule forbidding entry for war criminals to unfairly encompass the Indian military and police. In 2010, the prime minister of Canada was Stephen Harper. Justin Trudeau took over the office only in 2015.