Following Nupur Sharma’s alleged controversial comments against Prophet Muhammad, a video has surfaced on social media platforms claiming that it is her most recent speech. In this video, Nupur Sharma challenges the timing of the terrorists’ Supreme Court hearings and expresses her opposition to triple talaq, burqa, and Islamic marital customs.

The video is shared on Facebook with a caption in Hindi: “विवादित बयान के बाद नूपुर शर्मा जी का नया वीडियो…सुन लो हिन्दूओं….दही , प्याज , टमाटर खा लेना बाद में” (English translation: After her pungent remarks, Nupur Sharma Ji‘s new video… listen Hindus… Eat curd, onion, and tomato later)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

We did a keyword search, but could not find any recent credible media report corroborating the viral claim. Had she made such a claim recently, the mainstream media would have covered it.

Further, we extracted keyframes from the video and performed a Reverse Image Search. This search directed us to a tweet published by Nupur Sharma on May 25, 2018, that carried visuals similar to the viral video. The tweet reads: “Spoke on ‘Women in Nationalism’ at ‘Vyakhyan’ — organised by Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram at Nagar in Maharashtra — today. It was a privilege to have interacted with some enterprising women in Nagar, who contribute to society in various ways.”

Spoke on “Women in Nationalism” at ‘Vyakhyan’ organised by Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram at Nagar, Maharashtra today. It was also a privilege to have interacted with some very enterprising Nagar women who are contributing to the society in various ways. pic.twitter.com/6NYx5wSwoE — Nupur Sharma (@NupurSharmaBJP) May 24, 2018

We also found a video of Nupur Sharma’s speech at the “Vyakhyan” event on May 24, 2018. The claims made by Nupur Sharma in the viral video can be heard around 3:45 in the Facebook video. Nupur Sharma is wearing the same outfit as seen in the recent video.

After her controversial remarks against Prophet Mohammad, she had issued an apology on Twitter on June 5, 2022. This was her last tweet and we could not find any report of her attending any public event and speaking anything about Supreme Court trials, or her views related to Islam and Hinduism.

Thus, it is confirmed that the viral claim is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news