In April last year, the Union finance ministry decided to freeze increment in dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) for central government employees and pensioners due to the pandemic.

And now, an image of what looks like a finance ministry memorandum is circulating on social media, saying the government has decided to “resume” DA and DR from July 1. The letter dated June 26 also has the finance secretary’s signature.

advertisement

“Dearness allowance and Dearness Relief frozen during Covid-19 crisis is to be resumed from 1st July, 2021. The additional instalments of Dearness allowance and Dearness Relief due from 1st July, 2020 and 1st Jan 2021 shall be paid in three instalments,” the directive says.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that no such order has been issued by the Centre so far. The finance ministry has also warned against the fake document.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

AFWA CLEARS THE AIR

In April 2020, the finance ministry had decided to put on hold an increment in DA for 50 lakh central government employees and 61 lakh pensioners till July 2021 due to the Covid crisis. It was also decided that additional instalments of DA and DR due from July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021, would not be paid either.

This year in March, the ministry declared that central government employees and pensioners will get full benefits of DA from July 1, 2021. As per news reports, MoS finance Anurag Thakur said in Parliament that all three pending installments will be restored prospectively.

The National Council of Joint Consultative Machinery (JCM), headed by central government employees, and finance ministry officials were scheduled to meet on June 26, 2021. Speculations were high in mainstream and social media that the government would come out with a decision on DA and DR in this meeting.

In the meantime, the fake memorandum started circulating on social media, forcing the finance ministry to issue a clarification.

A document is doing rounds on social media claiming resumption of DA to Central Government employees & Dearness Relief to Central Government pensioners from July 2021.

#. . pic.twitter.com/HMcQVj81Sf — Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) June 26, 2021

The issue has also taken a political turn, with Congress party's Rahul Gandhi accusing the Centre of trying to snatch the hard-earned money of employees.

Till the time of filing this article, the government was yet to come up with any decision on DA and DR. No mainstream media reported that the finance ministry will clear the pending amount from July 1. Hence, the viral claim is misleading.