A viral video on social media shows two men thrashing another brutally with sticks, while a burqa-clad woman is trying to save the victim. Netizens are using the video to criticise “Hindutva” and the “fascist Indian government”.

Twitter handle @akrmalqymyposted the 44-second video with the caption, “Look at how extremists in India today are brutally beating this family Muslims in India are killed under the cover of the fascist Indian government Hindutva ideology is very dangerous for world.”

advertisement

WARNING: Visuals may be disturbing for some viewers

Look at how extremists in India today are brutally beating this family

Muslims in India are killed under the cover of the fascist Indian government

Hindutva ideology is very dangerous for world. pic.twitter.com/lvDEOENoVf — (@akrmalrqymy) July 6, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. There is no communal angle in the incident as both the accused and victim are from the Muslim community.

The post is also viral on Facebook. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

With the help of InVID tool, we reverse-searched keyframes from the video and found that a journalist named Prashant Shukla had tweeted the same video on July 6. He had said that the incident was from Siddharthnagar in Uttar Pradesh.

WARNING: Visuals may be disturbing for some viewers

In the comment section of Prashant’s tweet, Siddharthnagar police provided details about the incident and clarified that there is no communal angle in it.

As per police, the incident took place on July 6 at Itwa town in Siddharthnagar district, where a man named Ijaz and his family members were beaten up by some men with sticks. The viral video is of a family member of Ijaz being thrashed. The names of the accused in police records show that they too are Muslims Istekhar, Anwar Raja, Mohammed Kaleem and Haleem.

Police say the incident took place after a quarrel between kids of the families of the accused and victim. Cops have nabbed the four accused. Journalist Prashant had also tweeted a video in which Ijaz is seen telling the names of the men who thrashed him and his family.

News website Jagran had also covered the incident.

Therefore, it is clear that the claim along with the video showing a man being thrashed is false. There is no communal angle to the incident as both the accused and victim are from the same community.