A video has been circulating on social media with the claim that it shows Kolkata policemen assaulting Kanwar Yatra pilgrims. In the video, police lathi-charged a bunch of young men in front of a temple. Additionally, women could be seen apologising to cops.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen.

Also read: Fact Check: Pani Puri scare! Staged ‘social awareness’ video goes viral with communal twist

advertisement

AFWA has found that this 2021 video from Kolkata’s Bhootnath temple shows cops lathi-charging devotees for violating Covid-19 protocols.

AFWA PROBE

A reverse search of the keyframes of the video led us to the same video on Twitter that was shared by the official Twitter account of Bharatiya Janata Party Bengal on August 16, 2021. According to the tweet, the video was from the Bhootnath temple in Kolkata.

In front of the Bhootnath temple, the devotees of Shiva were brutally beaten by the Kolkata police.



Is this what the devotees of Shiva deserve?



Mamata Banerjee's reign in Bengal serves as a microcosm of the Taliban rule! Shame! pic.twitter.com/XSAO9SwD35 — BJP Bengal (@BJP4Bengal) August 16, 2021

We then searched online for news reports about the incident and found that it had been widely reported. Dainik Bhaskar reported that multiple temples in Kolkata reopened in August 2021 after restrictions that were imposed amid the second wave of Covid-19 were relaxed.

Bhootnath temple was not yet open to the public. However, during the holy month of Sawan, several Lord Shiva devotees gathered in front of the Bhootnath temple and broke restriction norms.

Cops subsequently resorted to lathi-charging to control this crowd. Reportedly, in 2021, the West Bengal government extended the Covid-19-related restrictions till August 31. Kanwar Yatras this year is scheduled to begin on July 14.

It is thus clear that the video in question shows police lathi-charging devotees who had gathered at a temple defying Covid-19 restrictions in 2021. It does not show cops assaulting Kanwar Yatra pilgrims.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena)