A video of Home Minister Amit Shah is going viral on social media. Users who shared this video are slamming Amit Shah. These users claim that Amit Shah had reached Telangana. During this, Amit Shah kept silent on the question of a reporter. It can be seen in this video that a reporter asks Amit Shah about no help from the Center in the Telangana floods. During this Amit Shah remains silent.

Sharing this video, a verified Twitter user named Ashok Basoya wrote- When the rain came, the flood came, then the Modi government did not help Telangana. Amit Shah – Silent….. it’s called journalism. @ INCTelangana @VamsiChandReddy _ @ KomatireddyKVR ”

At the same time, this video is also being shared by many other users.

Fact Check:

For the fact check of this video. First we saw that the V6 on the video NEWS logo. We found this video on YouTube on the official channel of V6 NEWS . This is a video uploaded 2 years ago on 29th November 2020. Caption of this video is- Amit Shah Face to Face Over Hyderabad Floods, GHMC Elections 2020 | Exclusive | V 6 News

The description of this video shows that this interview of Amit Shah was taken during the municipal elections in Hyderabad. Amit Shah’s viral video is a clip of this video. In this 3-minute video, the reporter can be seen questioning at 40 seconds. On which Amit Shah does not keep silent, but he answers.

Amit Shah replied- ” We have given maximum money to Hyderabad, but I want to say this much that when the house of seven lakh people got flooded. Where were Mr. Owaisi and Mr. KCR then? Didn’t even show up for a single day. People were in the water, there was water in the house, our workers, our MPs, our ministers have been among the people. ,

Conclusion:

A fact check of the video going viral proves that the claims being made by social media users are misleading. Because this video of Amit Shah is two years old and Amit Shah did not keep silence, instead he answers.

Claim- Amit Shah was silent on reporter’s question

Claimed by- Social media users

Fact Check – Misleading