Massive forest fires continue to ravage parts of Turkey, with firefighters battling days and nights to control the situation.

Worried netizens have posted several images of wildfires, praying for the country. But are all these pictures from the raging fires in Turkey?

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that of the five images being circulated, only one is from the wildfires in Turkey. The rest are years old and from different fires in the United States and other countries.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

With the help of reverse image search, we traced each picture used in the viral posts. We have numbered them for easy identification as well.

Image 1

This picture is of a forest fire that broke out in California in 2018. The original image is available on the website of “Getty Images” with the caption, “Firefighters try to control a back burn as the Carr Fire spreads toward the towns of Douglas City and Lewiston near Redding on July 31, 2018. (Credit: MARK RALSTON/AFP/Getty Images)”.

This picture was used by other news websites as well on reports about the 2018 California forest fires.

The viral image is cropped from the original image. Comparing the two pictures, we can find similarities that confirm the real identity of the viral image.

Original picture

Viral picture

Image 2

This picture is also from the United States. It shows a fire that broke out in Western Colorado’s Grizzly Creek on August 10 last year. This fire had eventually burned over 32,000 acres of forest land.

A report about this fire, along with the same viral image, was published on the website of “The Colorado Sun” last year.

Image 3

This image of a firefighter trying to douse the raging flames was originally taken by news agency “Associated Press”.

This picture too was clicked in the United States last year. The AP caption says, “A firefighter works against the Lake Hughes fire in Angeles National Forest on Wednesday, Aug. 12, 2020, north of Santa Clarita, Calif. (AP Photo/Ringo H.W. Chiu)”.

Image 4

This image of a boy wearing a mask and carrying a lamb is being circulated on social media for the last few days in relation to the forest fires in Turkey. We could not find more details about this picture.

Image 5

We found this picture of a deer in a burning forest among the stock images of “Alamy”. As per the website, the picture was taken in October 2010. The location of the image is not mentioned on the website.

Therefore, it can be concluded that though forest fires have badly affected Turkey, most of the images in the viral post are not related to it.