The viral claim is False. Facebook’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg has not made any such statement. The numbers that are claimed is far too huge in number.

A poster claiming Mark Zuckerberg’s said that the phrase ‘Jai Shri Ram’ is written 200 crore times each day on Facebook is widely circulating on social media.

The poster circulating on social media claims that Facebook owner and CEO Mark Zuckerberg said that the word ‘Shri Ram’ is written 2 billion times on Facebook each day.

This image is being widely shared on Facebook and Twitter.

Facebook Post

ALSO READ: Facebook’s inside feed on 25 friend algorithm is a myth

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google to find relevant news reports that corroborated the viral claim. However, we could not find any news reports that mentioned that ‘Shri Ram’ is written 200 crore times on Facebook.

We also searched on the Facebook’s and Mark Zuckerberg’s official account on Instagram and Facebook to find relevant information. However, we could not find any concrete information anywhere that corroborated Mark Zuckerberg’s statement on ‘Shri Ram’ being written on Facebook 200 crore times a day.

Next, we visited Facebook Blog Newsroom; where Facebook updates the latest news, announcements and media resources from the Facebook Company. However, we could not find any such result for ‘Shri Ram’.

ALSO READ: Explainer: Is Facebook really tracking your Off-Facebook phone activity on a daily basis?

Upon checking the phrase, ‘Shri Ram’ on Google trends where we found that this chant was a popular trend in April 2021. We found that there was a high use of this phrase in April due to the Bengal Assembly Elections in 2021. However, after the election results we found that there was a decline in the trend.

Next, we search for the interaction of the phrase ‘Shri Ram’ in Hindi Devanagari Script on CrowdTangle and found that the previous year there was 891342644 interactions on Facebook in English and Hindi.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral image on social media to be False. Meta’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg did not give out any statement that stated that the phrase ‘Jai Shri Ram’ has been written over 200 crore times on Facebook. We found that the phrase “Jai Shri Ram” was a popular trend only in April 2021, but the numbers were far less than what is claimed in the viral post.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)