A video has gone viral on social media that shows a group of Muslim men attacking a truck full of men with sticks. The men in the truck could be seen running away. Those sharing the video claimed that the Muslim men attacked a group of Hindus.

On Facebook and Twitter, people shared the video along with Hindi captions like, “Such is the situation now and it’s not even 2047 yet. A hundred Hindus ran away, fearing five Muslims.”

advertisement

AFWA’s investigation found that the viral video was from Bangladesh. More importantly, the video does not capture a Hindu-Muslim clash. Both groups were Muslim.

The video has been archived.

AFWA PROBE

When we reverse-searched grabs from the viral video, we found it was shared online as early as May this year. Several YouTubers shared the video in May 2022 claiming that the incident was from Bangladesh. Their descriptions claimed supporters of Touhidi Janata — reportedly a Bangladeshi Islamist group — assaulted a man playing loud music on a truck during Eid.

Also read: Fact Check: Video of aeroplane on flooded Karachi airport runway is not recent— it's from 2020

A Facebook page that reports Bangladesh news shared the video on May 5 with the claim, “During Eid, people play music on loudspeakers in moving trucks. In several places, locals attacked such people.”

A YouTuber who shared the video also claimed that a Muslim cleric called Maulana Nazrul Islam Siraji from Sirajganj, Bangladesh condemned such practices during Eid and called it a nuisance. He also justified assaulting people who did things like these.

We found that several news outlets from Bangladesh reported the incident in May this year. They stated, hundreds were detained and penalised for playing loud music in trucks, creating a nuisance, and indulging in obscenity. In several areas, people were assaulted by locals.

Previously, this video had gone viral with the claim that it was from Hubballi in Karnataka. This was subsequently debunked by the Karnataka police. India Today Malayalam earlier fact-checked the viral video as well.

Thus, it became clear that this incident did not involve a Hindu-Muslim clash. Both groups seen in the video were Muslim.