Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a keenly watched politician. Not just his speeches, but his attire and mannerisms on every occasion also make news. And now, a post circulating on social media claims PM Modi changed his dress four times in a day to meet four different leaders.

The claim is being shared with a photo collage of Modi with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Manipur Governor Najma Heptulla, Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma and Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat.

advertisement

The accompanying caption in Hindi translates to, “What kind of poverty is this? He met four people in a day and changed clothes all four times.”

The PM has been criticised for his attire ever since he called himself a fakir (hermit) at a rally in Moradabad, UP, back in 2016.

However, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral claim to be misleading. The meetings with the four leaders took place on different days.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

Using reverse image and keyword search, we found that the meetings took place between June 2 and 11. We have numbered the pictures for identification.

Yogi Adityanath met PM Modi on June 11, 2021, in New Delhi. It was a courtesy call and the photograph of this meeting was tweeted by both the UP CM and the Prime Minister’s Office on the same day.

The PM met Manipur Governor Najma Heptulla on June 10 and a photograph of this meeting was tweeted by his office.

After assuming his role as chief minister of Assam last month, Himanta Biswa Sarma met PM Modi in Delhi on June 2. Several news reports carried the picture and Sarma also tweeted his gratitude.

Gratitude



His towering vision has taken India to glorious heights of prosperity. Assam has especially been a beneficiary of Prime Minister Sri @narendramodi’s generosity. It’s a great pride to be serving under him as CM of Assam.



Met Adarniya PM & took his blessings today. pic.twitter.com/RJccUij03q — Himanta Biswa Sarma (@himantabiswa) June 2, 2021

Modi met Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on June 7. A picture of the meeting was tweeted by PMO the same day.