Four people were killed in firing by CISF jawans at Sitalkuchi in West Bengal’s Cooch Behar district during the fourth phase of elections on April 10. The CISF had alleged that a mob attacked them and tried to snatch their rifles.

The incident led to a war of words with the Trinamool Congress alleging that the deceased were their supporters and the BJP accusing the ruling party of instigating violence. Several BJP leaders such as Suvendu Adhikari, Arjun Singh and Saumitra Khan tweeted a picture of an injured CISF man, claiming he was attacked by Trinamool goons during the poll violence. Some of them have later deleted their posts.

advertisement

The image is widely circulating on social media with the same claim.

But though clashes did break out between locals and CISF personnel at Sitalkuchi, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral picture has no relation to the incident. The picture is of CISF ASI SP Sharma who was attacked by a langur at Dhanbad on April 9.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

AFWA investigation

Using reverse image search, we found that the viral picture was published on the website of “Jagran” on April 10, 2021.

As per this news report, the injured man seen in the picture is CISF ASI SP Sharma, who was attacked by a langur while on duty at Baghmara in Dhanbad, Jharkhand.

For further clarification, we reached out to CISF sub-inspector Pradeep Kumar in Dhanbad. Kumar confirmed that it is ASI Sharma in the picture, who was attacked by a group of langurs on April 9 at around 6.30 pm. At that time, Sharma was posted at the BK-2 area at Baghmara’s Bharat Coking Coal Limited plant.

“These langurs are a nuisance in the area. Several measures were taken to control them but in vain. A group of langurs had attacked Sharma. He tried to defend himself with a lathi, but one particular langur which was very violent attacked him on his face,” Pradeep Kumar said.

Hence, it is confirmed that the viral picture of the injured CISF man has no link to the poll violence at Sitalkuchi in West Bengal.

READ | Fact Check: Old news of BJP leader's arrest for helping Maoists linked to Bijapur attack

READ | Fact Check: Did the Centre deny ‘martyr’ status to CRPF jawans who lost lives in Bijapur?