Spread the truth:

A Photo of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Imran Khan, Pakistani ex-cricketer and current politician holding a flower bouquet claiming Kejriwal visited Islamabad to congratulate Imran Khan on his recent win in elections.

Following post in a Group “I Support Yogi” with caption “मुबारकबाद देने इस्लामाबाद पहुंचे दिल्ली देश के प्रधानमंत्री :):) साला गद्दार “”खुजलीवाल”” had more than 4300 shares

Translated – Prime minister of Delhi country visited Islamabad to congratulate, idiot traitor”

Tweeted by The Unpaid Times as sarcasm

Just in: Arvind Kejriwal reaches Islamabad to wish Pakistan's new PM Imran Khan after winning, says – 'It is quite shameful that Indian Media controlled by LG and Modi is potraying Imran Khan as a Villain.' pic.twitter.com/GlGNdeHyyH — The UnPaid Times (@UnPaidTimes) July 26, 2018

Truth –

This photo is from March 2016, 2 years old when Imran Khan came to India and met Kejriwal at his residence. And It’s Imran Khan who is gifting Boquet to Delhi CM Kejriwal

Met Imran Khan and we shared our experiences in politics. Both challenging status quo: Arvind Kejriwal https://t.co/g7TCErPOuk — The Express Tribune (@etribune) March 20, 2016

The Telegraph reported –

Calcutta: Four months after meeting Narendra Modi, Imran Khan called on the Prime Minister’s bête noire, Arvind Kejriwal. Imran, who heads Pakistan’s fast-growing Tehreek-e-Insaaf party, met the Delhi chief minister for around an hour at his 6 Flag Staff Road residence in the Civil Lines area on Sunday evening. To no one’s surprise, the Imran-Kejriwal meeting attracted plenty of attention from the national capital’s media corps. Imran, in fact, had sought an appointment via this Reporter. Around 11.00 pm on Saturday, Kejriwal’s OSD, Nagender Sharma, confirmed the appointment at Imran’s preferred time of “7.00 pm or so.”

A day earlier, during the course of an interview to The Telegraph, Imran had expressed a keenness to meet the chief minister. While there is much that’s different between Imran and Kejriwal, there’s plenty that is actually common between the two. Both, for example, are anti-corruption crusaders and are all for good governance. Nationally, Imran’s party sits in the Opposition, but the critical border province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is ruled by the Tehreek-e-Insaaf. The province does have a chief minister (Pervez Khattak), but Imran sets the agenda for administration. Kejriwal, by the way, has accepted Imran’s invitation to visit Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. As important, Imran and Kejriwal would be in contact with each other on issues of good governance. Imran left Calcutta for New Delhi late on Sunday morning and would return to Islamabad either in the early hours of Monday or by the afternoon.”

Imran Khan a year before meeting Kejriwal i.e. in 2015 also met PM Narendra Modi

Chairman of Tehreek-e-Insaf Party Imran Khan calls on PM @narendramodi (Image: PIB) pic.twitter.com/UmMfocHrg8 — EconomicTimes (@EconomicTimes) December 11, 2015

More Fakes

Also posted by a parody/fake account impersonating Arvind Kejriwal sarcastically saying Kejriwal as Next Prime Minister of Pakistan which had 561 Retweets

#Pakistan's next Prime Minister with Imran Khan. Our internal survey says AAP(Aam Aadmi of Pakistan) is going to clean sweep the Pakistan Election. Please vote for us today. #PakistanElections2018 pic.twitter.com/6iPfYysBEv — Arvind Kejriwal (@TroluKejri) July 24, 2018

#ImranKhan : Ab samay aa gya hai is Dosti Ko rishtedari me badalne ka pic.twitter.com/7AI6cY5vHa — Scar (@RAC7R) July 26, 2018

Related