Spread the truth:

A video is viral claiming where a man is beating up a Policeman claiming

Video is accompanied with the message – “ये है कमलनाथ की काँग्रेस सरकार का विधायक अनिल उपाध्याय जो पुलिस कर्मचारी को पीट रहा है देश की राष्ट्रभक्त समाज पुलिस के द्वारा ही ऐसे विधायक को जल्दी सजा दुलवाने के लिए सोशल मीडिया पर पहल करेगी । 😡😡”

Following tweet by @Indianbhai6 has been retweeted more than 5000 times

Congress. विधायक अनिल उपाध्याय की इस करतूत पर क्या कहेगे , इन video को इतना वायरल करो की ये पूरा भारत देख सके.. . . @ INCIndia अबे गुंडों क्या करोगे अब इस हारामी विधायक का

Truth

The video is from Last Year, Oct 2018. It wasn’t any Congress men but a BJP Corporator Manish Chaudhary in Meerut, who later was arrested for beating a Sub-Inspector.

#WATCH: BJP Councillor Manish thrashes a Sub-Inspector who came to his (Manish's) hotel with a lady lawyer and got into an argument with a waiter. The councillor has been arrested. (19.10.18) (Note- Strong Language) pic.twitter.com/aouSxyztSa — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) October 20, 2018

“Manish Chaudhary was arrested under non-bailable offences, will be produced before the court on Saturday. His supporters came to the police station to protest, we showed them evidence… The S-I is definitely at fault for he shouldn’t have been there in the 1st place. The probe is on,” said Superintendent of Police (City) Ravinder Singh.Meanwhile, Panwar was sent for a medical examination and was relieved of duty pending an investigation into the matter.

Dusshera night brawl

Sub-inspector Panwar visited Chaudhary’s restaurant on Friday night, accompanied by a woman, who is a city-based lawyer. An argument ensued with the staff over delay in service and Chaudhary then reportedly slapped and pushed Panwar.” – Source

More Fakes

Congress. विधायक अनिल उपाध्याय की इस करतूत पर क्या कहेगे ,

इन video को इतना वायरल करो की ये पूरा भारत देख सके..👇. .@INCIndia अबे गुंडों क्या करोगे अब इस गुन्डे विधायक का pic.twitter.com/K8TQ9BOl4o — Chowkidar Vaishali Poddar (@PoddarVaishali) April 8, 2019

Related