Though the current Covid-19 status of US President Donald Trump is still unclear, he is hoping to re-assume campaigning from Saturday, October 10, as per the media reports.

Donald Trump and First lady Melania Trump had tested positive for coronavirus on October 2. However, just four days later, Trump returned to the White House after leaving the military hospital where he was being treated for Covid-19. He staged a dramatic return as he entered the White House without a protective mask while he was still infected.

advertisement

Amid this, a screenshot of a tweet allegedly posted by Trump is going viral on social media which claims that the US president had taken a shot of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine recently. The tweet says, “I just got the vaccine shot for Covid-19 at the White House. The vaccine is the one was created in Russia. I received the shot at 8 am and I wanted to let you all know that it’s completely safe with no side effects whatsoever and that feel shaky .”

This screenshot has been shared with the caption, “Positive news everyone! We can relax.”

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be totally false. US President Donald Trump has not posted any such tweet.

The claim is viral on Facebook as well as Twitter.

AFWA probe

US President Donald Trump has neither tweeted nor given any statement about him receiving a shot of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine.

We scanned the Twitter account of Donald Trump and his archived tweets. We did not find any such tweet by him.

The screenshot of Donald Trump's alleged tweet which is viral on social media shows the posting date as October 2, 2020. We found that on this date, he had tweeted about him and his wife Melania testing positive for coronavirus.

Tonight, @FLOTUS and I tested positive for COVID-19. We will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately. We will get through this TOGETHER! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 2, 2020

Moreover, the viral tweet has several grammatical errors which Trump wouldn't commit in any case. Also, the last line of the tweet has some words written in the Belarusian language which translates to meaningless words in English.

According to a CNBC report, when Trump was asked about his view on the Russian vaccine 'Sputnik V', he had said, "We don't know much about it. We hope it works, we do, we hope it works."

Thus, it is clear that the viral tweet of the US President Donald Trump is morphed and completely baseless.