The video is from Pakistan and shows the 40th day mourning by the followers of Khadim Hussain Rizvi who was the the chief of Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan.

Following reports of communal violence in the state of Tripura, many photos and videos purportedly from Tripura have emerged on social media platforms. Over the past few weeks, Fact Crescendo has debunked several photos and videos, which were shared in the name of Tripura but has absolutely no association with the state or the recent violence. A similar video showing lakhs of people gathered on the road and chanting religious slogans has surfaced on social media. The video claims to show a rally took place in Mumbai against the atrocities and violence in Tripura.

The caption of the post roughly translated from Hindi mentions, “Millions of people get down on the streets In Mumbai, lakhs of people has come together to protest against the atrocities in Tripura.”

The caption in Hindi mentions, “मुंबई मे त्रिपुरा मे होने वाले ज़ुल्म के खिलाफ लोगो का विरोध प्रदर्शन मे लाखों लोग रास्ते पर उतर आये ”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

Upon observing the viral video carefully we can see a metro passing by from the rail tracks below which the rally is taking place. We identified the metro as the orange metro line in Lahore. We searched for images of this metro line and found several similarities indicating the video to be from Pakistan.

Below you can see a comparison between the screengrab of the viral video and the orange metro line in Lahore.

Next, we ran a reverse image search on the a key frame we extracted with the help of the InVid We Verify tool, which led us to the same video posted on YouTube on 4th January 2021. The location of the video says that it is from Lahore in Pakistan. The headline of the video mentions that the video shows the Chehlum of Allama Khadim Hussain Rizvi Chehlum.

The title of the video mentions, “Allama Khadim Hussain Rizvi Chehlum I TLP Chehlum 2021”. According to Wikipedia, Chehlum is a religious observance in Islam held 40 days after the death of a person.

With another keyword search on Google, we found that Khadim Hussain Rizvi was the chief of a political party Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) who passed away at the age of 54 on 19 November 2020. His chehlum was observed on 3rd January 2021 near the Mosque Rehmatul Lil Alameen at Multan Road’s Battery Stop in Lahore. The venue was decorated from Yateem Khana Chowk to Scheme Morh in Lahore. Several media houses had covered the incident and lakhs of people had gathered to observe his Chehlum.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video to be False. The viral video does not show protests against the Tripura violence in Mumbai. The video is from Lahore in Pakistan shot in January this year showing a religious observance carried out by the followers of Khadim Hussain Rizvi, 40 days after his death.