Yusuff Ali who is the managing director and the Chairman of LuLu Group International. A post with two pictures is getting viral on social media where it is seen that in one photo claimed to be from Kerala, Yusuff Ali made Pinarayi Vijayan who is the CM of Kerala to sit with his chauffeur and he sat behind whereas in the other photo which is claimed to from UP, Yusuff Ali became the chauffeur himself and is sitting beside the CM of UP, Yogi Adityanath.

In Kerala: Yusuff Ali made Pinarayi to sit with his chauffeur and he sat behind like a boss!



In UP: Yusuff Ali became the chauffeur himself and drove Yogi ji around!!



Many in Kerala are unhappy about this 😎 pic.twitter.com/Z7lzNtoe0n — നചികേതസ് (@nach1keta) July 11, 2022 This post was also shared on Facebook, which can be seen here.

Fact Check

Searching with some keywords and doing reverse image searches, we got to know that the viral picture of Pinarayi Vijayan and Yusuff Ali is from December, 2021. When the LuLu Mall was inaugurated in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. India Today Malayalam also published a report on the same.

Moreover, on 16th of December 2021, Pinarayi Vijayan posted a tweet tagging Thani Al Zeyoudi (UAE Minister of State for Foreign Trade) which can be seen below.

The UAE has promised to open a state-of-the-art food park in Kerala. @ThaniAlZeyoudi, the UAE Minister of State for Foreign Trade, has said the details would be discussed with the technical team. Thanks to the Govt of UAE for their immense support for Kerala's development. pic.twitter.com/FruzQc1HOI — Pinarayi Vijayan (@pinarayivijayan) December 16, 2021

Talking about the second picture, which was taken in the inauguration of LuLu Mall in Lucknow on 10th of July. Yusuff Ali is seen sitting beside the CM of UP, Yogi Adityanath, while driving the buggy. The pictures are covered in the reports of onmanorama, jagran

Conclusion

By our fact check it is clear that the post shared in the social media is misleading. The man driving the buggy for the Kerala CM is not a chauffeur but a minister of UAE.

Claim: Yusuff Ali made Pinarayi to sit with his chauffeur and he sat behind like a boss

Claimed by: Social media users

Fact Check: Misleading