Spread the truth:

Recently, two videos have been circulating extensively on WhatsApp, accompanied by a message in Hindi.

The videos show Police beating men at a Congress event and taking them in a Police van.

The message reads – “कांग्रेस मीटिंग में कांग्रेसी नेताओंने लगाए नारे “पाकिस्तान जिंदाबाद” ठीक उसी पल उन कांग्रेसी नेताओंके बंदोबस्त में लगी पुलिस ने निभाया देश भक्त का कर्तव्य कांग्रेस मीटिंग में घुस कर सब कांग्रेसी कुत्तों की कर दी धुलाई अब जो भी भारतीय पाकिस्तान जिंदाबाद बोलेगा वो इसी तरहा ठुकेगा – अब इस पुलिस के लिए भी बोल दीजिये जय हिंद ।”

Translation: “In a Congress meeting, the Congress members were sloganeering, and shouted ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ (Long Live Pakistan.) At that time, the policemen allocated for the security of their event showed nationalistic responsibility. These policemen entered the meeting and started beating up the Congress dogs, and whichever Indian will say ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ will be beaten up in the same way. Let’s say ‘Long Live India’ for these policemen”

These videos show people being lathicharged by policemen. On close examiation of the videos we got to know the following:

Video 1:

The video shows policemen beating up people in a hall with batons, and driving them out. On close examination, we got to know that this incident took place in Bilaspur, but which one?

Video 2:

The video shows policemen beating up protestors and making them get into a police bus. The bus has ‘Chhattisgarh police written on it.This also establishes the fact that this incident took place in Bilaspur city located in Chhattisgarh.

These videos were also shared on social media platforms:

Dilip Singh’s facebook post has got 282 shares on Facebook ever since it was posted on 17th February

The same post on another Facebook page, Tejaji ke Bhagat has got 888 shares ever since it was posted on Facebook on the 15th of February

छत्तीसगण कांग्रेस मीटिंग में कांग्रेसी नेताओंने लगाए नारे "पाकिस्तान जिंदाबाद" ठीक उसी पल उन कांग्रेसी नेताओंके बंदोबस्त में लगी पुलिस ने निभाया देश भक्त का कर्तव्य कांग्रेस मीटिंग में घुस कर सब कांग्रेसी कुत्तों की कर दी धुलाई अब जो भी भारतीय पाकिस्तान जिंदाबाद बोलेगा वो इसी तरह pic.twitter.com/oX5OJQJGct — 🇮🇳🌹CHANDRABHAN KEWAT🌹🇮🇳 (@ChandrabhanKew4) February 16, 2019

Although the visuals are true, is it true that these Congress workers were bashed up because they shouted ‘Pakistan Zindabad?’

TRUTH:

SMHoaxSlayer used video keyframe reverse search for finding out the truth of the video. Although it is true that the Chhattisgarh police lathicharged the people, the reason given for the same is totally false.

According to a ‘The Hindu‘ report on the 19th of September, 2018, the Bilaspur Unit of the Congress was protesting in front of Minister Amar Agarwal’s house for his comments on the opposition at that time (The Congress), when he had called the opposition kachra’ (garbage) and the police then raided the unit and lathicharged them allegedly because of this reason.

There are giveaways in the first video where a word similar to Pakistan is heard. We would like to clarify that the word said was definitely not Pakistan (As it starts with ‘H’), although the word was not heard clearly because the voice was echoing in the hall.

Rahul Gandhi Official account also tweeted the same video

नरेंद्र मोदी की हुकूमत में तानाशाही एक पेशा बन गया है| बिलासपुर में रमन सिंह की सरकार द्वारा कांग्रेस कार्यकर्ताओं के मौलिक अधिकारों पर बुज़दिली से किए गए इस प्रहार को वहाँ की जनता सियासी ज़ुल्म के रूप में याद रखेगी| pic.twitter.com/to7LDkXzEt — Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) September 19, 2018

TImesNow reported

MORE FAKES:

Related