Social media curiosity over the glitzy marriage of Vicky Kaushal and Katrina Kaif isn’t going anywhere soon. But while theme weddings are the new fad, the Internet has now gone crazy over one such adventure-filled nuptial ceremony that has seemingly gone wrong.

Multiple mainstream media outlets, lesser-known news portals, Facebook and Twitter users have posted a story that says a bride in Gwalior married a different groom after she landed in a different venue by mistake during a paragliding entry at her wedding.

advertisement

The Internet story goes like this: Deepansh, a chartered accountant, and Shital, a real estate observer, were set to marry on December 14 in Gwalior. “They also made a hashtag for their wedding, #DeepShit. Shital started taking paragliding lessons for her grand entry at the wedding dressed as an angel. Deepansh was all set to come to the venue from an underground mine-like setup dressed like a miner.”

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Old video of Beirut explosion shared as visuals of Karachi blast

But everything takes a bizarre turn as Shital paraglided down to a different wedding venue and met another man named Somesh. Within five minutes, Shital decided to marry Somesh.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: TV debate clip falsely shared as Congress spokesperson hailing PM Modi

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this is actually a fictitious story published by satire website “The Fauxy”.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

Too unreal to be true

The viral story raised suspicion because it was too dramatic to be real. We then noticed that some social media users posted the screenshot of the original story that was published on the website called “The Fauxy”.

The Twitter bio of “The Fauxy” handle describes itself as “India’s Finest, Fastest & Fictitious News Source”.

The website also clearly mentions in the disclaimer section that whatever is published is only for entertainment purposes. It has advised readers not to confuse its articles as genuine.

The picture used in the viral article is of Pakistani actor couple Danish Taimoor and Ayeza Khan.

The other picture showing a woman with a paraglider is edited. The original photograph has been available on the Internet for quite a few years.