A video is getting viral on social media sites. In the video, a boy is cleaning the windscreen of the car. The boy put his watch on the FASTtag sticker. In the video, it is claimed that this is a new type of scam where the boy stole the money of the FASTag account through his watch.

Many users have shared this video on the internet and called it a new FASTag scam. Further, along with the video, a Facebook page Shamli News wrote, “Whoever has a fast tag on their car, they should be smart. There is a new scam in which your account can also be empty while cleaning the glass of the car.”

(“जिनकी भी कार पर फास्ट टैग लगा हुआ है, वो जरा होशियार रहे, ये नया स्कैम आया है, कार का शीशा साफ करते करते आपका अकाउंट भी खाली हो सकता है,”)

Similarly, many users have shared this nwes with the similar claim.

Also Read: Imran Khan led PTI spread fake news to take credit for the fake news of FATF grey list.

Fact Check

On our fact check analysis we found a tweet of the FASTag NETC where it is written that, “Please note that there are baseless and false videos circulating on Social media. Do understand the below points:

1. No transactions can be executed through open internet connectivity.

2. No financial transactions can be initiated without all the pre-requisites mentioned in the image. NPCI has already taken action to respond to these videos and delist them from the Social media platforms.”

Please note that there are baseless and false videos circulating on Social media. Do understand the below points: 1. No transactions can be executed through open internet connectivity. pic.twitter.com/AKqvcpVE1z — FASTag NETC (@FASTag_NETC) June 25, 2022

Furthermore, we also found a tweet from the verified account of Paytm clarified that the video is fake. In the tweet , it is written that, “A video is spreading misinformation about Paytm FASTag that incorrectly shows a smartwatch scanning FASTag. As per NETC guidelines, FASTag payments can be initiated only by authorised merchants, onboarded after multiple rounds of testing. Paytm FASTag is completely safe & secure.

A video is spreading misinformation about Paytm FASTag that incorrectly shows a smartwatch scanning FASTag. As per NETC guidelines, FASTag payments can be initiated only by authorised merchants, onboarded after multiple rounds of testing. Paytm FASTag is completely safe & secure. pic.twitter.com/BmXhq07HrS — Paytm (@Paytm) June 25, 2022

Conclusion

Therefore, the viral video is fake.