Comedian Nitin Gupta confirmed to Fact Crescendo that the video belongs to one of his interview to OpIndia

A video showing a speaker explaining about Bollywood filmmakers and Islam is widely circulating on social media. He explains his views on how slowing the Bollywood is promoting Islam, how girls are converted to Islam, temples are converted to mosques, names of place are converted to Urdu names. This video is shared on social media claiming that this is an exclusive interview of Assam’s chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.

Our readers sent this video to us on our WhatsApp Fact line number (9049053770) for verification.

The caption of the video mentions, “Listen to the short interview of the CM of Assam, he is shedding some light about the country.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check

We started our investigation by carefully observing the video where we could see OpIndia’s logo on the top left corner.

Keeping this in mind, we ran a relevant keyword search on YouTube that led us to the same video published by OpIndia Hindi on 14 July 2021. According to the headline of the video states that the speaker of the video is Nitin Gupta who is speaking on Forced Conversions of girls, cities and temples.

Upon searching about Nitin Gupta, we found that he is a comedian who is the founder of the Humor Beings. Below you can see a comparison between Nitin Gupta’s image and Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma.

Next, Fact Crescendo contacted comedian Nitin Gupta who confirmed to us that the video is from one of his interviews. This video has no relation with Assam’s Chief Minister.

ALSO READ- Gaurav Pradhan’s video viral as Assam CM Hemnat Biswa Sarma’s speech

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the viral image on social media to be False. The viral video does not show Assam’s CM Himanta Biswa Sarma. The video shows a comedian named Nitin Gupta.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)