The pandemic has taken a huge toll on employment in India. Different surveys have shown that millions of Indians have lost their jobs cutting across sectors since the Covid breakout early last year.

Now, a video of a woman trying to jump in front of a train is circulating on social media, with users linking it to stress arising out of joblessness. Though the accompanying claim does not explicitly say the incident is from India, many netizens are assuming so. In the video, one can also see a man rushing from behind and dragging her on to the platform just in time.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found it to be a 2017 video from China.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The post is being shared with the trending hashtag #railway_groupd_examdate. According to reports, two years after filling the application form, Railway Group D job aspirants are still waiting for the exam dates.

On September 27, candidates started trending the hashtag with a request to railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to release the exam date. The exam is expected to fill over one lakh vacancies.

AFWA probe

Upon closely observing the video in question, we noticed that the engine of the train seen approaching the platform looks like that of a bullet train. This gave us a clue that the video might not be from India.

We did a reverse search of keyframes of the video and found a longer version of the same video on the YouTube channel of China’s state-affiliated media CCTV on May 13, 2017.

The woman who’d tried to jump on to the railway tracks is seen bursting into tears on the platform after being pulled to safety. The uniforms worn by railway staff are different from those worn in India. A collage of some screenshots from the video can be seen below.

According to the video description provided by CCTV, the footage is from Putian city in east China’s Fujian province.

We also found other reports about the incident that have identified the woman as a college student.

According to the reports, a worker at the railway station named Weng Jianzhong noticed the woman around 2: 50 pm on May 10, 2017. Since she looked visibly distressed, the man kept an eye on her.

Later, seconds before the high-speed train was about to reach the station, she ran towards it. The alert worker grabbed the woman by the shoulder and pulled her back. While the woman was unhurt, Weng injured his head.

advertisement

Reports also said Weng was rewarded S$1,940 for saving the woman.

Indian media houses, including India Today and NDTV had also reported the incident in 2017.

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is over four years old and from China.

READ: Fact Check: This video does not show Taliban being ambushed in Panjshir

ALSO READ: Fact Check: This is not Subramanian Swamy attending Opposition leaders' meeting