Many people on social media are astounded and amused by a video clip where a martial artist is expertly playing ping-pong with a Nunchaku -- a traditional martial art weapon rather than a paddle.

The black and white clip has been posted and shared by many on Facebook claiming that this is the rare clip of martial arts star Bruce Lee playing ping-pong with Nunchaku in 1970.

advertisement

Users like Sumita Chakraborty posted this clip recently on Facebook, saying, "A priceless clip of 1970 of Bruce Lee playing Table Tennis with his Nan-chak !! His focus on speed, reflexes and accuracy was absolutely incredible"

The archived version of the post is saved here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim. It is not martial arts star Bruce Lee playing ping-pong with a Nunchaku.

It is a digital creation of an advertisement clip produced by an international advertising agency for the launch of Nokia N96 Limited Edition Bruce Lee cell phone, produced in 2008.

This 1.12-minute-long video clip is viral on Facebook for some years now. Many users have believed this to be a real clip of Bruce Lee from 1970 and posted it on their wall.

One of the users "Devranjan Dev" commented on the Facebook post of "Sumita Chakroborty", that this is an advertisement filmed for Nokia in 2008. With the help of the keywords search, we found several articles related to this popular Nokia advertisement video.

Website 'Adweek.com' wrote about this advertisement in an article named '5 Brilliantly Faked Viral Ads That People Still Keep Thinking Are Real'.

It is mentioned in the article that in 2008, this ad clip was produced by agency JWT Beijing for the Nokia N96 Bruce Lee Limited Edition.

We found that several websites related to gadgets, like 'gsmarena.com', ) and 'adage.com' had published articles about the launch of Nokia N96 Bruce Lee edition in 2008.

In an interview given to 'Agency. Asia', Polly Chu, the Chief Creative Officer of ad agency JWT told in detail about the making of the video clip 'Bruce Lee ping-pong campaign' for the Nokia N96 Bruce Lee edition in 2008.

Martial arts star Bruce Lee died in the year 1973. This ad film was made exactly 35 years after his death. The artist who played the role of Bruce Lee was a lookalike of Lee.

Fact-checking website 'Snopes' had also debunked this claim.