Delhi recorded 1,904 new Covid-19 cases on March 29. With this, the number of active cases in the Capital touched 8,032. This is the highest it has been since December 22 when there were 8,735 active cases.

Amid this fresh rise in Covid cases, some netizens are claiming that the Delhi government has once again imposed a lockdown. A video by “ABP News” is being shared widely in which Arvind Kejriwal is announcing a lockdown. In the 2-minute-45-second video, the Delhi chief minister gives instructions related to the lockdown.

advertisement

An excerpt of his statement in Hindi translates to, “If we wait for the number of cases to increase and then impose a lockdown, our hospitals and the entire health infrastructure might not be able to deal with it. This can lead to a rise in the number of deaths. That is why we have decided that a lockdown would be imposed in Delhi which would start from tomorrow 6 am. This will continue till 12 pm on March 31.”

A Facebook user shared this video with the caption, “Lockdown in Delhi will be applied today from 6 in the morning!” The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is from last year when lockdown was announced in the Capital. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain recently said that as of now, there is no plan to impose a lockdown in Delhi.

Read | No possibility of lockdown in Delhi, says health minister as Covid-19 cases continue to surge

AFWA probe

In a press conference on March 22, 2020, Kejriwal had announced a lockdown in Delhi from the following day till March 31. This was later extended as the central lockdown also came into force.

The clip circulating on social media is a portion of the “ABP News” video of the same press conference. The viral part can be seen at three minutes into the video.

The Press Information Bureau has also refuted this claim and said, “This video is from last year (2020). It’s an old news clip & is being shared without any context.”

A video is being shared on social media which claims that #Lockdown will be imposed in #Delhi from tomorrow morning.#PIBFactCheck: This video is from last year (2020). It's an old news clip & is being shared without any context. pic.twitter.com/AqVyx1T0wR — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) March 28, 2021

Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain recently gave a statement that lockdown is not the solution to check the spread of coronavirus. He also said there was logic behind the lockdown enforced earlier as nobody knew then how the virus propagates.

Thus, it is clear that an old video of Kejriwal announcing lockdown in Delhi has resurfaced and is being shared as recent.

READ | Fact Check: Image of Queen Elizabeth II thanking PM Modi for Covid vaccines is morphed

WATCH | Covid resurgence sets off alarm bells, govt urges people not to let guard down