Sharing videos and images of broken Georgia Guidestones in Elbert County of Georgia, US, people claim that an earthquake destroyed the granite monument.

The Georgia Guidestones, which were carved with inscriptions in Spanish, Hebrew, Hindi, English, Swahili, Arabic, traditional Chinese, and Russian, were solid granite pillars that were constructed in 1980. After a nuclear war, the writing on the stones was intended to serve as “guides” for humans on how to save mankind.

The video is shared on Facebook with a caption: “BREAKING: At 4 am this morning, one of the Georgia Guidestones collapsed and crumbled. Reports say it was an earthquake, but be not deceived — this is a sign from God intervening on our behalf. Down with the Globalists and the New World Order. CHRIST IS KING!”

Here’s the link to the above post.

People are also sharing images, claiming the same.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

Doing a simple keyword search directed to several credible media news outlets that carried similar visuals stating, “A rural Georgia monument has been bombed, damaging one of four granite panels that some people dubbed ‘America’s Stonehenge'”. The Georgia Guidestones monument near Elberton was damaged by an explosive device, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation said. The bombing comes weeks after a Republican candidate for governor claimed that the Georgia Guidestones are satanic and called for their demolition.” This clearly means that an earthquake had no role to play in its destruction.

The Wall Street Journal claimed that the monument was blasted on June 7, 2022. According to the report, which cited GBI, the remainder of the building was taken from the site and destroyed for safety concerns.

We found two surveillance footage of the explosion uploaded by the GBI’s verified Twitter account. According to the footage that is now available, a vehicle was spotted departing the scene immediately after the explosion.

(2/3) The videos show the explosion and a car leaving the scene shortly after the explosion. No one was injured. pic.twitter.com/8YNmEML9fW — GA Bureau of Investigation (@GBI_GA) July 6, 2022

The agency also released a video showing an unknown individual setting off explosives at the location. They went on saying that the explosion had damaged the building and made it “unsafe for investigators to explore,” so they decided to completely destroy the monument.

Additionally, we looked at the United States Geological Survey’s (USGS) website to see whether there had ever been any seismic activity in Georgia, and it turned out that there hadn’t been any quake recently.

Thus, it is now clear that an explosion had destroyed Georgia Guidestones, and not an earthquake. So, the viral claim is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news