Are you planning a visit to a hospital during the pandemic? Beware! For it can lead to you losing an organ. A similar claim is doing the rounds on social media along with a disturbing video of people arguing with doctors for allegedly stealing a patient's kidney.

One such video on Facebook shows a man's body lying on a hospital bed with a bandage on his lower abdomen. The claim alongside the video says that the incident took place in Sudha Hospital in Kota, Rajasthan, where the doctors first declared the victim Covid positive and then stole his kidneys.

advertisement

People are sharing this video with a caption in Hindi, a part of which translates to, “This incident happened in Sudha Hospital of Kota, Rajasthan. The doctors declared this person as Covid positive and then stole his kidneys.”

The video is quite viral on Twitter. Some such claims can be seen here, here, and here.

Several Facebook users are also making this claim. The archived version of this post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The claim video is from 2018 and has no relation to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.

The person who made the video is heard shouting at the hospital staff. “Do not dare to fool me. You have stolen his kidneys. How do you explain this bandage on his abdomen? He had a head injury but his abdomen was perfectly fine. You made a cut in his abdomen to steal his kidneys. I will share this video with the media so that your Sudha Hospital is exposed.”

AFWA probe

With the help of InVid keyframe reverse image search, we found that the video was shared by a Youtube channel in 2018.

We found a 2018 report by Rajasthan Patrika which explains the entire incident in detail. As per the report, a man named Babulal was admitted to a private hospital in Kota in serious condition after met with a road accident. Unfortunately, he died during the treatment. After his death, his family raised suspicion about the hospital authorities stealing the victim’s kidneys.

However, the police quashed the claims of missing kidneys after conducting a post mortem of the man’s body.

The mystery behind the cut on the abdomen

We also found a video by India TV wherein a doctor of Sudha Hospital gave clarification on the incident. He says, “The brain of the patient was seriously injured. During treatment, doctors had temporarily preserved his skull bone flap in his abdominal wall. This process is called Decompressive craniectomy which is often used in traumatic cases of a head injury.”

The curious case of missing kidneys

We contacted Dr RK Agarwal, the director of Sudha Hospital who confirmed that the video shows an incident which took place in his hospital in 2018. He added that the allegations of the family of the diseased person were completely false. The hospital had even lodged an FIR against the kin of the victim.

advertisement

Dr Agarwal also sent us a copy of the FIR and the post mortem report of the victim. The report clearly states that both his kidneys were found intact inside his body.

Thus, it is clear that the viral claim of doctors stealing a patient’s kidney during the time of the pandemic is misleading. AFWA had earlier too debunked a claim related to organ trading happening under the guise of Covid-19.