The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has got a rather messy task at hand - solving the mid-air poop problem. Days after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) rapped the DGCA, the aviation regulator issued a circular to airlines stating that dumping excreta mid-air would attract a fine of Rs 50,000. Sticking to its point, the DGCA told the green panel that it has become a "laughing stock" due to this order as it is impossible to dump human waste mid-air from aircraft toilets.

advertisement

Incidents of aircraft waste falling from sky have been reported from several places in India and abroad. However, the matter reached the NGT's door in October 2016 when a Delhi resident, Lt Gen (retd) Satwant Singh Dahiya, filed a case alleging that faeces was splattered from aircraft on his South Delhi house. Even as the matter is sub judice, people wonder if incidents on poop droppings actually happen? We looked into the stinky matter and spoke to aviation experts to dig out the facts.

"There is no system to dump human waste mid-air in any modern aircraft," asserts H S Khola, former director general of civil aviation.

Explaining the mechanism, Mark D Martin, an aviation technical specialist and CEO of Martin Consulting, said, "In modern aircraft, waste onboard is treated with additives and is stored in an isolated tank away from fuel, hydrologic, pneumatic and air-conditioning lines. On-board systems make it impossible to open the aircraft waste shaft unless it is on ground and the lavatory truck is physically connected to the aircraft."

Martin further said, "In the 1970s, sewer waste lines were not adequately sealed and resulted in waste leakage, which used to break away mid-flight. In modern aircraft, there's no way that a pilot or maintenance crew can open an aircraft waste line unless it has its engines turned off and parked."

Older toilets were messy

Older generation planes over 30 years back used to dump waste, that too occasionally. Those planes used a different electric system and flushed their toilet using a blue chemical disinfectant. The blue liquid was known as 'Skykem' and it was prone to leaking. The waste would leak through faulty valves, freeze on the outside of the aircraft and fall off as it descended to warmer air.

ALSO READ | Human waste from sky: NGT directs DGCA to issue circular

This is what happens when you flush

The current vacuum toilet system in planes, designed by James Kemper in 1974, was first installed in a Boeing in 1982. In a plane toilet, strong suction and teflon-like walls pull excreta away using a small quantity of water. As you press the flush button, the vacuum at the bottom of the bowl sucks the waste into a holding tank. The waste is sucked into a tanker at the airport and then dumped. Even if the pilot and flight attendants want to empty a tank midflight, it is not possible as the valve is located on the outside of the plane, and can be only opened by the ground crew.

advertisement

Blue ice is not what you think

You might have heard about 'blue ice'. The term is used for chunks falling from airlines formed because of leaks from sewage tanks in older planes. It is frozen mixture of blue sanitising liquid, water and traces of human excreta. In case of a leakage from the toilet drain lines, small amount of toilet fluid comes outside and is condensed into ice due to low temperature outside. When the ice becomes too heavy, it falls on ground. This normally happens during descent when the aircraft witnesses high temperatures on coming from higher altitude to lower altitude.

So next time if a chunk of blue ice falls on your head, you have a better idea of what it could be.

ALSO READ | Will stop your salary if airlines continue dropping poop midair: NGT to DGCA

ALSO READ | DGCA moves NGT, says impossible to dump poop mid-air