The KP Oli government of Nepal has recently upped the ante against India, objecting to road construction within Indian territory and introducing a new map that includes disputed areas. Recently, Nepal police had also fired on a group of Indians from a border village in Bihar.

Amid this, a video of a rocket exploding mid-air within seconds of its launch has been going viral on social media with the claim that this is how an Indian missile test failed. The post goes on to take a dig at India, saying how can such an army fight against Nepal.

advertisement Indian missile test is failed.



Can this type of Army fight against Nepal? pic.twitter.com/0NX1FBpRj3 — Irmak Idoya (@Irmaknepal) July 15, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. The incident has no connection with India and it was a Russian rocket that crashed in 2013.

The post is also viral on YouTube and Facebook. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Using InVID and reverse search, we found a YouTube video by "Euronews" showing the same visuals of the rocket crash. As per "Euronews", it was an unmanned Russian Proton-M rocket that crashed in July 2013. The rocket was carrying three navigation satellites and it was launched from Russian-leased Baikonur launch facility in Kazakhstan.

Russia's space agency Roscosmos said the accident happened due to an emergency shutdown of the rocket's engines. The estimated loss due to the crash was around 154 million euros. However, no injuries were reported. The incident was widely reported in the international media at that time.

The same video has been shared with different claims multiple times. Last year, it was passed off as an Iranian rocket, while in January this year, the video was shared as a Pakistani missile. India Today had debunked claims that it was an Iranian rocket.

Therefore, the viral video that some netizens claim is of India's failed missile test is actually a Russian rocket that crashed seven years ago.