Spread the truth:

A video is viral in which an old man is dancing surrounded by a mob and claimed to be lynched by a mob with his religious thread “Janeyu” cut and was forced to dance.

“एक वृद्ध ब्राह्मण की पहले यग्योपवित (जनेऊ) काटी फिर कपड़े उतार कर भीड़ ने डांस करने के लिए मजबूर किया। यह स्थिति है दक्षिण के . @ INCIndia शासित राज्यों की, . @ RahulGandhi जी क्या यह अल्पसंख्यक ब्राह्मणों के साथ मोब लिंचिंग नही है? . @ ANI . @ sudhirchaudhary . @ narendramodi . @ AmitShah“

Translation: “An old man’s religious thread was cut, then he was stripped and then the mob made him dance. This is the status of INCIndia ruled states. Rahul Gandhi ji, ain’t this mob lynching with Brahamans in minority ?”

archived

Above tweet has till now been retweeted more than 5300 times

Balbir Punj, Commentator on # Social and # Political Issues. Has been # BJP member of # Parliament for two terms., quoted the above tweet and wrote:

“It is a perfect case of intolerance, a result of politics of hate and divisiveness practiced by Left, illiberals & so called ‘secular ‘ parties. No wonder ‘Award wapsi ‘ & ‘Intolerance’ gang are silent. @ sgurumurthy @ TarekFatah @ somkritya“

It is a perfect case of intolerance, a result of politics of hate and divisiveness practiced by Left, illiberals & so called ‘secular ‘ parties. No wonder ‘Award wapsi ‘ & ‘Intolerance’ gang are silent.@sgurumurthy @TarekFatah @somkritya https://t.co/1DOGL0c6HZ — Balbir Punj (@balbirpunj) June 27, 2019

archived

archived

Truth

This probably is a clear case of intentional Fake News spreading.

A long clear video was downloaded from an app “TikTok” as seen it’s logo is in the video, trimmed i.e. cut short, trying to prove the misleading text accompanying the viral video, the app used to trim the video “Action director” name can be seen in the right bottom.

The original video was uploaded on YouTube on 24th June 2019 and is 1 minute 37 seconds long while the viral video is only 10 seconds long.

This was cut short as in complete video all can be seen enjoying, happy, celebrating with smiling faces. No one touched the old man and he too was smiling before, during and after his dance. In the end of the video, he can be seen interacting with the people with music instruments. Till the end, he has his religious thread “Janeyu” in single piece on his body.

You can see complete video here –

You can see his smiling face –

All celebrating with smiling faces.

You can see his religious thread intact in the end. You can also see the kids are also in the crowd, smiling and enjoying

You can also see a Social Reformist Periyar EV Ramasamy’s face n the flags held by people

Social Reformist Periyar EV Ramasamy

This was first fact checked and debunked by a South Indian website – YouTurn

BOOM contacted the YouTube channel Karuppar Koottam who told us that the event took place place on May 1, 2019 in Kanchipuram.

“This rally which was organised by People’s Forum was held at the Periyar staute on May Day near Sankara Mutt Temple. It was a bit surprising at first seeing the old man come and look at the Periyar statue, our companions cheered and applauded when he started dancing.”‘

Related