Pakistani author Tarek Fatah tweeted a video targeting people of Pakistan on how they steadfastly refuse to take polio drops for their kids. Video shows a woman holding a child in her arms while screaming at two female volunteers who reached her doorstep to feed polio drops to her children. Several other children are also seen in the background.

advertisement

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is a scene from a Pakistani feature film "Load Wedding" and not the real incident.

The archived version of the Tweet can be seen here.

Tarek Fatah shared the video with the caption: "Pakistani mother slams the door shut in the face of Polio workers. Screams at the two female volunteers: "I will never ever allow my children to take these drops. Never never will my kids drink these drops. Never."

The video is quite viral on Facebook also.

On Tarek's tweet some users pointed out that it is a scene from a Pakistani feature film "Load Wedding". Taking this as our lead, we ran a search for the movie on YouTube and found the movie link. One can see the viral clip from 34 minutes 26 seconds in the movie.

The film is about a young man who gets married without a proper dowry before his elder sister leaving her bitter and jealous. Starring Mehwish Hayat, Hania Aamir and Samina Ahmad this film got released in August 2018. Mehwish also took Twitter to clarify Tarek that the scene is from her movie "Load Wedding" in which she had played the role of a polio worker.

Thank u for giving ur 2 cents on this but pls first verify the source b4 posting next time. It’s a scene frm my movieloadwedding,the polio worker is me & that woman an actress.Through the film we were raising awareness of the issue.Glad 2 see our performances were so convincing https://t.co/ididoJJcxL Mehwish Hayat TI (@MehwishHayat) January 15, 2020

However, the fight against polio virus is not easy in Pakistan as several incidents of health workers being attacked by the locals has been reported.

India was declared polio-free in the year 2011 but Pakistan is still among one of the only three countries where polio remains endemic. The other two countries are Afghanistan and Nigeria.

It is clear that though the situations of polio workers are not different in Pakistan, but the video tweeted by Tarek Fatah is a scene from a Pakistani film.