A video of a huge procession of Sikhs dressed in white turbans, kurtas and pyjamas is going viral on social media with a claim that they had reached Delhi's Shaheen Bagh to support Muslims against National Register of Citizens and Citizenship (Amendment) Act.

Facebook user "Mohammad Javed" posted the video along with a caption in Hindi which translates to: Sikh brothers reach Delhi's Shaheen Bagh, say they too are with Muslims. No NRC, No CAA.

advertisement

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The video is three months old and from Sultanpur Lodhi in Punjab.

Till the filing of this story, the video, which was posted on February 4, received more than 17 lakh views and over 1,26,000 shares.

The misleading post is being shared like wildfire on Facebook.

We could not find any news report regarding this video on internet, but a closer look shows that the incident is from Punjab.

In the video, the registration number plate of a motorcycle passing by shows the RTO number (PB08BA 8747) of Punjab's Jalandhar. A vehicle of Punjab Police can also be seen.

A vehicle of Punjab Police can also be seen

Our reporter and local police in Jalandhar told us that this was the procession of Namdhari Sikhs, an India sect of Sikhism, who mostly wear white turbans, kurtas and pyjamas.

One of the users also commented on the viral video that it is 'Nagar Kirtan', a Sikh custom involving processions by the community.

With the help of related keywords, we found some YouTube videos from November last year showing a similar procession and a police vehicle as seen in the viral video.

The details of these YouTube videos show that it is a procession by Namdhari Sikhs on the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev in Sultanpur Lodhi, a holy town in Kapurthala district of Punjab.

Punjab Police vehicle spotted

To investigate further, India Today reached out to the DSP of Sultanpur Lodhi, Sarwan Singh Bal.

He told us that the viral video is of a procession led by Namdhari Sikhs in the town on the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev in November, 2019.

We also contacted Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema to further authenticate the video. Cheema confirmed to us that the video is from his constituency and was shot in November last year.

Cheema said he had organised the celebration in the city, and the procession seen in the video was going to Gurudwara Ber Sahib, a famous holy spot for Sikhs in Sultanpur Lodhi.

advertisement

He also sent us some more videos of the procession.

The incident was also reported by Punjab Kesari on November 2, 2019.

AFWA, therefore, concludes that the video has no relation to the Shaheen Bagh protests against NRC and CAA.

(With inputs from Paramjit Rangpuri and Suket Gupta)