Several religious places, including temples, mosques and gurdwaras, are being converted into temporary Covid facilities as India grapples with acute shortage of hospital beds. Amid this, a collage of three pictures is being circulated on social media with the claim that a mosque attacked during the 2020 Delhi riots was converted into a Covid care centre.

While the first picture in the collage looks like a temporary medical facility, the other two depict alleged vandalism in mosques. The caption says, “Both the pictures are of Delhi! In the picture below, Indian extremists set fire to a mosque/masjid in Delhi 14 months ago. In the picture above, the local Muslims left the mosque/masjid as a unit of the Corona Hospital to save lives. This is Islam! Subhan-Allah”.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The image of the Covid facility is from a mosque inside Azam Campus educational institute in Pune, Maharashtra.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

We did a reverse search of the first picture and found that it was carried in several news reports in April 2020 as from Pune.

According to a report by “Navbharat Times”, the image is from a mosque located inside Azam Campus in Pune. In April 2020, as Covid cases surged in the city, the mosque was temporarily converted into a quarantine facility for infected people.

News agency ANI had also tweeted a few images from inside the Azam Campus mosque on April 28, 2020.

Maharashtra: Mosque located inside Azam Campus educational institute in Pune has been turned into a quarantine facility for persons likely infected with COVID19. PA Inamdar,Chairman,Maharashtra Cosmopolitan&Education Society says, "It's our duty to help the nation at this time". pic.twitter.com/adnk75GdK0— ANI (@ANI) April 28, 2020

A video showing arrangements inside the mosque was uploaded by India TV on its YouTube channel.

Meanwhile, in a meeting convened by Delhi Waqf Board chairman and Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan, a group of imams in the area decided to set up isolation centres in mosque complexes for Covid-19 patients. The decision comes as cases continue to rise in the Capital.

But it is clear that the viral picture is not related to the Delhi riots that took place in February 2020, in which a number of religious places were damaged. The picture was taken inside a mosque in Pune last year.