A viral video of a disabled’ beggar who then goes on to walk has the Internet in splits. The one-minute-50-second video shows a man wearing a skull cap crawling through a narrow street, followed by a woman and girl holding babies in their arms, and a young boy. The woman and the girl are seen wearing hijab.

After some time, the crawling man is seen resting in front of a house, following which he wears slippers, gets up and suddenly starts walking. Facebook user Sonu Pandit posted the video on October 31 with a sarcastic claim that Allah’s miracle cured the legs of a disabled beggar. He went on to say that the incident is from Delhi.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. This particular video is not from India but Pakistan.

Till the filing of this story, the video has already been viewed by over 6.33 lakh users and shared more than 20,000 times. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Pakistani-Canadian columnist Tarek Fateh also re-tweeted a similar misleading post.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID tool, we found the viral video on a YouTube channel called Story Corner’. As per this channel, the video is from Pakistan. It uploaded the video in March last year.

A news report by Divya Bhaskar published in January 2019 also says that the incident, captured on CCTV, took place in Pakistan’s Lahore.

By using related keywords, we also found a report by Pakistani channel Dunya News, which carried the viral video. The channel captioned the video as Look how fake beggars fool people.

A verified Facebook page Show Ana Haber also claims that the viral video is from Pakistan. Show Ana Haber’ is the official Facebook page of Turkish news website ShowTv.com’.

We, however, could not independently verify in which city of Pakistan the incident took place or details about the man. But the given pieces of evidence are well enough to establish that the viral video has nothing to do with India.

We also could not find any news report from Indian mainstream media which claims that the video is from Delhi. If India Today gets any update regarding the video, it will be updated in the story.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Photo showing Syrian child protecting his sister fudged as kids from Kashmir

ALSO WATCH: Is Modi govt launching a new Rs 1,000 note?