Internet has always been divided over punishment for crimes against women.

More recently, a picture of a woman escorted by a lady constable is circulating on social media with the claim that she was arrested for killing her rapists. Sharing the picture, many netizens have hailed the act.

The accompanying claim in Hindi translates to, “Hindu bravehearts, this woman has killed two persons who raped her. I think what she did was absolutely right. What’s your view?”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be untrue. The woman in the picture was arrested for conspiring with her boyfriend to kill her fiancé. The murder took place in Bengaluru in 2003.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Because no added information was available with the claim, we first reverse-searched the viral image on Google and the results led us to a completely different story. Search results suggested that the image has its roots in Bengaluru’s sensational Girish murder case of 2003.

We came across an article published in “Deccan Herald” in July 2010. The article had two pictures of the same woman from different angles.

We found another news article with a picture of the same woman. The headline here reads, “Advocate Shubha Shankarnarayan gets bail after 4 years in jail”.

A simple comparison revealed that the woman in the above report and in the viral image is the same.

Another article by “The Hindu” carried a timeline of the entire proceedings.

Girish murder case

All the above news reports gave information on the nearly 20-year-old case that had then shaken the nation. In November 2003, then 21-year-old law student Shubha Shankarnarayan got engaged to 27-year-old software engineer BV Girish from Bengaluru. Days after the engagement, the couple went for dinner, but Girish was attacked and declared dead the next morning.

It was later revealed that Shubha conspired the murder along with her lover Arun Verma and two of his associates Dinakaran and Venkatesha.

All four of them were arrested in January 2004. After six years of trial, a fast-track court convicted all of them for murder and sentenced them to life imprisonment. The Supreme Court granted her bail in August 2014.

Hence, it is clear that the story along with the viral image is untrue.

(Inputs from Riddhish Dutta in Kolkata)