19th August 2019 a Facebook user named Sanju Jannat shared a video on Facebook. This video is made by adding different videos and 4 photographs. By watching the video we can make out that people are being tortured. It is written in the description of this post “situation of Kashmir and Kashmiris … don’t know why Indian media can’t see this pain? Through this post it is being claimed that this video shows the agony of cruelty which the media is hiding.

Famous on social media:

FacebookPost|ArchivedLink

In the video shared above, 2 videos and 9 photographs have been shown. When we searched for them with the help of InVidTool separately, we got the below-mentioned results

1st Video: 00:00 till 00:24 second Google Reverse Image Search

In our research, we found a video uploaded on YouTube by JKNN JAMMU KASHMIR NATION NEWS on 21st October 2017. In the description, it was written: 7 civilians killed in Kulgam district of South Kashmir.

With the death of one more in Kulgam district in South Kashmir, the number of civilian’s death has increased to seven. Official sources have identified citizen as Aqib Ahmad Sheikh, son of Gul Mohammad of Makhanpora in Kulgam. He said that Aqib died near the site of the encounter and was among the initial casualties. With his death, the figure has reached to seven in Kulgam. Three local militants were also killed and soldiers were injured in shelling in Laru village. Civilians were killed in the explosion near the site of the encounter, while others protested. Few were killed by the government forces when they opened fire to disperse. The encounter started after a joint team of Army and SOG launched a siege and search operation in Laru Village on Sunday.

When we searched for keywords on Google ‘7 civilian killed in Kulgam’, we found this incident was held on October 21st 2017. According to the publication of the news magazines, the encounter between terrorist and security forces occurred in Laru area of Khulgam district of Kashmir in which 3 militants of Jaish e Mohammad were killed. But during the bombing by terrorists, 6 civilians were killed and many soldiers and civilians were also injured. In this incident, the Adviser to the governor K. Vijay Kumar, and DGP Dilbag Singh also deeply regret the loss of civilian life at the encounter site and expressed their condolences to the bereaved families.

Pictures shown in the video:

1st photograph: 17 August 2016: Google Reverse Image Search: Archived Link

Avax.News The news on 19th August 2014 shared pictures of the people hurt in the voilence and riots that have been going on in Kashmir for weeks. This photo is one of them.

2nd Photograph: 2009 : Google Reverse Image Search: ArchivedLink

A website called KashmirLife published a news on 20th January 2014 in which this picture was given. Picture on 2009, Srinagar; Kishor (Minor) IGP, SM Sahay, SSP Ashish Bukhari and DIG A.G. Mir with the detainees.

3rd Photograph: 12 May 2009: Google Reverse Image Search: Archived Link

On a website called Sweetneha we found some photos published on 12th May 2009, in which the picture was also given. Although from this picture it could not be confirmed where it is, but this picture does not show the present state of Kashmir. This picture is present by the name of ‘Kashmir’ on internet since 2009.

4th Photograph : 2nd February 2011 : Google Reverse Image Search : ArchivedLink

On a website called Nasir-khan.blogspot.com we found some pictures aired on 2nd February 2011, in which this picture was given and told to be from ‘Kashmir’. It has not been confirmed, but this picture does not reflect the current state of Kashmir. This picture has been present by the name of ‘Kashmir’ on the internet since 2011.

5th Photograph: 15th April 2016 : Yandex Image search ArchivedLink

We found some pictures published on 15th April 2016 on a website called Kartarpur.com, in which this picture was also given and has been said to be from ‘India’. Although it could not be confirmed where the picture is from, but it is present on the internet since 2016.

6th Photograph: 2nd February 2011 : Google Reverse Image Search: ArchivedLink

On a website called Sudhan.wordpress.com we found some photos published on 2nd February 2011, in which this picture was also given and it is described as ‘Kashmir’. This picture has been present on the internet since 2011 as ‘Kashmir’.

7th Photograph: 26th December 2012: Google Reverse Image Search: ArchivedLink

On a website called Kumarsushilkumar.wordpress.com an article on the protest in ‘Nirbhaya Rape Case’ was circulated on 26th December 2012 at Delhi’s India Gate. Several pictures related to this protest were also given. This picture is one of them.

8th Photograph: 31st March 2001: Google Reverse Image Search: ArchivedLink

On a website called Nasir-khan.blogspot.com we found some photos published on 31st March 2001, in which this picture was also given and it is said to be from ‘Kashmir’. This photograph is present on the internet since 2001 with the name of ‘Kashmir’.

9th Photograph: 2nd February 2011: Google Reverse Image Search: ArchivedLink

On a website called Nasir-khan.blogspot.com, we found some photos published on 2nd February 2011, in which this picture was also given and it is said to be from ‘Kashmir’. It has not been confirmed yet, where this picture is actually from; but this picture has been present on the internet since 2011 as ‘Kashmir’.

Second video: 01:10 to 01:40 seconds : Facts Check Link

This video is of a mock drill held in Khunti district of Jharkhand in October 2017 and it has nothing to do with Kashmir. This research makes it clear that the video and pictures shared in the post are of old incidents and of different cities, not just of Kashmir. Currently these videos and photos have nothing to do with the current situation in Kashmir. After the removal of Article 370 from Jammu & Kashmir, many old videos are being circulated with the purpose of confusing people by presenting false details

Results of investigation: Claim made in the above post, ‘this video shows the situation of Kashmir which the media is hiding’, is wrong.