The video is available on the internet since 2019. The shooting of the film the Kashmir Files started in 2020 after the Covid-19 restrictions were relaxed.

The film “The Kashmir Files” directed by Vivek Agnihotri has been among the top trends on social media and topic of discussion and debates on the mainstream media. The film is based on the exodus of Kashmiri Hindus from the valley during the Kashmir insurgency of 1990.

Meanwhile, some social media users shared a video and claimed that these are the deleted scenes from the film the Kashmir Files. In the video, an elderly man with a megaphone makes allegations against the Indian Army in Kashmir.

The caption of post reads, “The deleted scene of #TheKashmiriFiles which has been hidden from the audience, and the director Vivek Agnihotri did not pay attention to such incidents.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google on one of the screenshot of the video. The results led us to same video posted on 5 September 2019 on YouTube with the caption, “Save Kashmir | Old Man Crying to Muslims That | Where Are You Muslims.” A longer version of the video was posted on Youtube in September 2019 that can be seen here. Several YouTube users without any clear information (here and here) had posted this video in 2019.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R4TVrxI798Y

Vivek Agnihotri had announced his new film The Kashmir Files, which is based on the mass exodus of Kashmiri pandits from the Kashmir valley in 1989-90 due to militancy on 14 August 2019. He stated that this film would be released in August 2020.

Presenting #TheKashmirFiles



Next year, same time, on our 73rd Independence anniversary, we will bring you the unreported story of the most tragic and gut-wrenching genocide of Kashmiri Hindus.



Please bless our team as it’s not an easy story to tell. #KashmirUnreported pic.twitter.com/5pbgJ2OLZv — Vivek Ranjan Agnihotri (@vivekagnihotri) August 14, 2019

We also found reports from 2020 that stated that the shooting for the film the Kashmir Files were called off due to the COVID-19 Pandemic. According to the report, Vivek Agnihotri said, “We were scheduled to start shooting in Kashmir this week. However, because of the outbreak of coronavirus and the advisory of the Government of India and the WHO, we have decided to push it ahead. We realised that a wise decision is to postpone everything which involves more than a couple of people and that to the known people from a known environment.”

This makes it very clear that the viral video is available on the internet since 2019 that is way before the shooting of the film started.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video on social media to be False. The viral video is not a deleted scene of the film the Kashmir Files. The video is available on the internet since 2019 that is way before the shooting of the film started.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)