Is India heading towards another lockdown? With over 91 lakh cases and more than 1.3 lakh deaths, and with the pandemic showing no signs of slowing down, that's the question on everyone's mind.



Meanwhile, a Facebook post with a video of Narendra Modi claims that the Prime Minister has announced a lockdown in five states. The 11-minute long viral video shows stock images of PM Modi with "Breaking News" graphics.

advertisement

Among several other things, the Hindi voiceover in the clip claims that some states, including Delhi, are going to reintroduce lockdown. The Hindi caption of the Facebook post translates to, "Permission granted to impose lockdown in five states, the Prime Minister has announced".

The viral post garnered over 1.07 lakh likes, over 8,000 shares and more than 3.4 million views till the time of filing this story.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral claim to be misleading. As of November 24 evening, PM Modi has not announced a fresh lockdown. Some states have imposed night curfews but not complete lockdowns.

The archived version of the viral post can be seen here.



No lockdown as of now

PM Modi on Tuesday held a virtual meeting with chief ministers of eight states and reviewed the Covid-19 situation. He also asked the states to prepare for vaccine distribution.

"Our priority is to make the vaccine available for all. States should put in necessary mechanisms, including cold storage facilities," the PM said, as reported by news outlets.

No mainstream media has reported that PM Modi has asked for the imposition of lockdown in states in this virtual meet or otherwise.

Amid the surge in coronavirus cases, some states have introduced restrictions and curfews in districts that have witnessed a rise in infection. While some states have imposed night curfews in the worst affected districts, others have regulated the timings of marketplaces.

But till the time of writing this article, there has been no such announcement from the Prime Minister about reintroduction of lockdown in any state. Hence, the viral claim about the lockdown in five states is misleading.