With elections in Uttar Pradesh scheduled early next year, all major political contenders in the fray are gearing up for the same. The recently concluded panchayat elections in the state threw up mixed results, forcing leaders back to the drawing boards.

Amid this, a controversial letter claiming that accelerating the Covid-19 vaccination process can prove to be a game-changer in UP is doing the rounds on social media. The letter, allegedly issued by Union Home minister Amit Shah’s office, has been addressed to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath.

advertisement

Beginning on a complimentary note, the letter applauds Yogi for his efforts in handling the second wave of the pandemic. It then lays emphasis on completing registration of people in the age group of 18 years and above for Covid vaccination in Western UP by mid-July. “This vaccination registration process is a key to success in upcoming Uttar Pradesh Elections 2022,” the letter concludes.

Union Home ministry officials have confirmed to India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) that the letter is fake. Shah has not written any such letter to Yogi.

AFWA probe

Had any such letter been written by Shah to Modi, mainstream media would’ve surely covered it. We contacted the Union Home ministry for clarification on the said letter. Responding to our email, Nitin Wakankar, Director General (Media & Communications) at MHA, called the letter fake.

A closer look at the viral letter reveals grammatical errors. One of the sentences starts with “Now more efforts required”, while the correct format should have been “Now more efforts are required”. The word “mid” has been unnecessarily capitalised as well. It is unlikely that a letter issued by the MHA will have such errors.

The viral letter bears a serial number “HMP 28647021”. MHA officials confirmed to us that no letter bearing the said serial number has been issued by them.

Two letters issued by Amit Shah earlier can be seen here and here.

Hence, it can be concluded that a forged letter in Shah’s name is being circulated on social media to mislead people.