Veteran actor Dilip Kumar passed away at a Mumbai hospital today following a prolonged illness. Soon after, a video of the actor being fed by his wife Saira Banu on a hospital bed started circulating on social media with the claim that it shows Dilip Kumar’s last moments in the hospital.

The caption for the 2-minute-13-second video says, “Dilip Kumar Last Video Inside Hospital Before He Left Us | Saira Bano Ji Feeding Him Food”.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video is from 2013 when Dilip Kumar was admitted to a Mumbai hospital after he complained of breathlessness.

AFWA probe

Using InVID tool, we did a reverse search of the video in question and found screenshots from the same video carried in 2013 reports by “The Indian Express” and “News 18”.

According to these reports, the video is from Mumbai’s Lilavati Hospital. Dilip Kumar was admitted there on September 15, 2013, after he complained of uneasiness. Doctors had later diagnosed him with severe cardiac infection.

On September 22, 2013, the official Twitter handle of Dilip Kumar had shared the same video which is circulating now. “Thank you for your prayers and love. Resting in the hospital. Video from yesterday,” read the caption.

Thank you for your prayers and love. Resting in the hospital. Video from yesterday. http://t.co/YoofBJgObz — Dilip Kumar (@TheDilipKumar) September 22, 2013

Several YouTube channels had also published the same video in September 2013.

‘Tragedy King’ laid to rest

Some of Dilip Kumar’s most unforgettable movies include Mughal-e-Azam, Naya Daur, Duniya, Kranti and Ram Shyam. Known as the ‘King of Tragedy’, his movie career spanned over five decades.

Dilip Kumar breathed his last on July 7, 2021, at the age of 98. He was later laid to rest at Mumbai’s Juhu Kabristan with full state honors. The legendary actor was admitted to Hinduja hospital on June 30 after complaining of breathlessness.

It is, however, clear that the video in question is almost eight years old and does not show the last days of the Hindi film icon.

READ: Pak PM Imran Khan says Dilip Kumar was the greatest actor of his generation. Read tweet

ALSO READ: Why Dilip Kumar changed his name from Yusuf Khan

ALSO READ: Dilip Kumar has special connection with Kashmir. His wife Saira Banu was born in the Valley