The world watched in admiration as a handful of women protested against the Taliban in Kabul, even as the group, not exactly known for honouring women’s rights, looked on. The protest came at a time reports of Taliban fighters barring women from joining work and punishing them for dressing “inappropriately” poured in from across the country.

In this context, a video of a group of burqa-clad women marching through a street with the Afghan flag is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows Afghan women protesting on the streets of Kabul as Taliban militants look on.

advertisement

The caption of one such video reads, “We all know that without women, social processes would be much more difficult, their courage and determination have always been decisive. Afghan women protest in Kabul before the Taliban.”

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video is of a protest held against the Taliban by Afghan women in Iran.

AFWA probe

Such a mass women’s rally in Afghanistan against the Taliban would have surely made news. But a Google search revealed only a small group of women holding placards and demanding gender rights on a street in Kabul. This was reportedly the first agitation of its kind since the Taliban took control of Afghanistan.

These brave women took to the streets in Kabul to protest against Taliban. They simplify asking for their rights, the right to work, the right for education and the right to political participation.The right to live in a safe society. I hope more women and men join them. pic.twitter.com/pK7OnF2wm2 — Masih Alinejad (@AlinejadMasih) August 17, 2021

A simple keyword search led us to videos similar to the viral one, with users saying the protest took place in Qom, Iran.

Demonstrators in Qom shame #Taliban supports and chant we don't want "Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan" pic.twitter.com/sMpj75FjLH — (@mamlekate) August 16, 2021

We found news reports of anti-Taliban protests by Afghans in Iran in the cities of Tehran, Mashhad and Qom.

We then reached out to Seyedali Pourtabatabaie, the editor of Qom News, a news website based in Qom, and Fateme Karimkhan, an Iran-based journalist.

The journalists confirmed to us that the video in question is from Enghelab Street, locally known as Chahar Mardan, in Qom, and it shows Afghan women protesting against the Taliban. The Google Map location of the street can be seen here.

Seyedali also shared with us a few images and a video shot by him from Enghelab Street. We can see the statues on the street and a money exchange as seen in the viral video here.

A video of Enghelab Street shot from the same spot where the viral video was taken can be seen below.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video is from Iran and not Afghanistan.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Old video from Syria shared as Taliban executing woman in Afghanistan

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Man clinging on to a wing and a prayer? No, there is a catch