Murshidabad Police confirmed to us that the incident is not related to any love jihad incident. Both the accused and the victim belong to the Hindu community.

A video showing a man stabbing a woman lying on the ground is widely circulating on social media with a narrative of Love Jihad on social media. Users claim that the video is from Berhampore in Murshidabad, West Bengal. According to the post, the girl belonged to the Hindu community who had refused to convert to Islam; hence, the Muslim boy stabbed her in public.

The caption of the post states “Welcome to Islamic State of Bengal. Love Jihad case Baharampur, Murshidabad. Hindu girl refused to accept His religion of peace so he stabbed her in public. Victim is the student of Murshidabad Bahrampur Krishnanath College. Sutapa Chowdhury, a third year student.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation with the help of keyword search on Google, which led us to ABP Ananda news report on the incident uploaded on 2 May 2022. The news reported that Sutapa Chowdhury (21-year-old) was shot and then stabbed to death in Murshidabad’s Berhampur on 2 May.

According to a report by Ei Samay published on 3 May, the name of the accused is Sushanta Chowdhury (22-years old) and he hails from Malda district. The victim is Sutapa Chowdhury, a third-year student at Berhampore Girls’ College. The report does not mention that the accused belongs to the Muslim community.

According to Hindustan Times, preliminary investigations revealed that the youth had an affair with the girl. However, later the girl walked out of the relationship and came to Berhampore for her studies, according to the SP of Murshidabad.

According to the Indian Express, the victim’s father, Swadhin Kumar Chowdhury the accused had been threatening his daughter. “Sushanta met Sutapa around three years ago and had been in a relationship with her. However, they broke up later. As my daughter stopped talking to him, Sushanta started blackmailing, threatening and intimidating her. We sought the local councillor’s help to make him [Sushanta] understand that Sutapa wanted to continue her studies and that he shouldn’t disturb her,” said the victim’s father.

Fact Crescendo reached to Raja Sarkar, Berhampore IC who told us that both the victim and accused belong to the Hindu community. There is no communal angle to the incident.

Fact Crescendo reached out to the SP of Murshidabad, K Sabari Raj Kumar who confirmed to us that the viral incident has no live jihad angle to it. Both the accused and the victim belong to the Hindu community.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video to be False. The incident shown in the video has no angle of love jihad related to it. Both the accused and the victim belong to the Hindu community.