Indian matrimonial ads often carry a long list of criteria for prospective partners based on height, build, complexion, caste, religion and education to name a few. But if a viral post circulating on social media is to be believed, a new criterion has been added in the "new normal" induced by the pandemic - Covid vaccine.

In what appears to be a newspaper clipping of a matrimonial ad, a self-employed Roman Catholic girl, who took both shots of Covishield, is seeking a potential groom from her faith, who must also be fully vaccinated with Covishield.

advertisement

The so-called matrimonial ad was shared by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who captioned the image as, "Vaccinated bride seeks vaccinated groom! No doubt the preferred marriage gift will be a booster shot!? Is this going to be our New Normal?"

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the matrimonial ad is not real but was merely created using an editing tool.

Tharoor's tweet received over 9,000 likes and 1,000 retweets till the time of filing this story. The archived version can be seen here.

Believing it to be true, Maharashtra Youth Congress president Satyajeet Tambe also posted the 'ad' on Twitter. The claim is also viral on Facebook.

An editing tool that fooled netizens

Some users commented on Tharoor's tweet that the clipping is fake and created by using fodey.com, an online graphic or meme generator, popular for its option of creating one's own newspaper clipping with headline, date, name and story.

We visited the website and tried to create similar clippings using vaccine names other than Covishield. The tool created exactly the same news clippings as shared by Tharoor and others.

In the past too, fodey.com has been used to create fake news clippings. One such clipping that went viral claimed that 4,000 RSS workers were arrested under IPC section 377 for performing unnatural sexual acts in 1971.

So far, AFWA could not find any matrimonial ad where someone sought a vaccinated groom or bride for marriage. But the ad seeking a fully vaccinated boy is not real but created digitally.