A viral video, purportedly showing men in uniform raising slogans for azaadi (freedom) in Kashmir and claiming that the "Jammu and Kashmir Police also wants freedom in Kashmir" is fake.

This doctored video is being circulated, viewed and shared by thousands on social media.

A Facebook page named 'Chitkaar, Meri Awaz Suno, Awaz Bharat Ki' with nearly seven lakh followers posted the fake video, adding that "Yeh Hai Asliyat Jammu Kashmir Police Ki. Inhe Bhi Chahiye Azaadi (This is the reality of J-K Police. They too want Azaadi)".

advertisement

India Today Fact Check team brings out the truth behind the video.

If one listens to the video carefully it can be easily identified that the audio playing the azaadi slogan is amateurishly dubbed, so there is a constant lip sync problem.

J&K Police confirmed that the video is fake and issued an advisory on it. But the police could not reveal the original source of the video immediately as they were yet to complete the investigation.

We started looking for clues on social media regarding the video.

As per a tweet by Ubaid Arafat, who claims to be the beat officer of the J&K forest department, the video is of J&K forest department officers demanding the removal of pay anomaly.

Actually it is the video of Forest Officers of j&k Protesting in Uniform for agreed/ genuine demands of removal of pay Anamoly and sanction of 2 and half day Salary. No need to spread biased videos. They are not police men. Ubaid Arafat (@ubaidurfatJKF) September 14, 2018

Further search on YouTube and social media using the keywords "forest employees protest demands" led us to a video by 'The INS News' published on September 11, 2018. The video shows Jammu and Kashmir Non-Gazetted Forest Officers Association protesting outside the J&K forest department headquarters in Sheikh Bagh, Srinagar.



Faidous Elahi, the reporter for INS News who covered the protest, confirmed to India Today that the visual in the video which was going viral was of the same event.



Nazir Ahmed, state president, J&K Non-Gazetted Forest Officers Association told India Today, "We have been protesting since long. This time on Forest Martyrs Day we demanded correction of pay anomaly, risk allowance and two-and-a half-day's extra salary in favour of frontline departments".

Ahmed, aware of the doctored video going viral, shared with us the original video.

In this video, the original slogans raised by the protesting forest personnel can be heard. The original slogan: "Tankhayon pe paye jani wali tafavat door karo. Risk allowance ko bahal karo. We want justice. (Remove pay disparities. Give us risk allowance benefit.)"

So our Fact Check found that neither the men in uniform belonged to J&K Police nor did they raise slogan demanding Azaadi.

ALSO READ | Kidnapping of cops' kin, surge in terror attacks behind former J&K DGP Vaid's transfer

ALSO READ | Former J&K DGP SP Vaid transferred, DG (Prisons) Dilbagh Singh to take over