Don't get confused if you come across a Facebook post like this - Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mother Hira Ben asking for votes for her son in the run-up to 2019 elections.

The image is photoshopped.

The picture of Hira Ben purportedly showing her with a placard asking for votes for her son is circulating on social media. A Facebook page called Narendra Modi WhatsApp Group followed by more than 14 lakh people have posted this photoshopped image.

advertisement

The placard is in Hindi, which in English reads like this: Will you vote for my son Narendra in 2019?

Screenshot of the viral photo where Hiraben is holding the placard

This suspicious post has been liked and shared by many on Facebook, hundreds of people commented saying they will vote for Narendra Modi.

India Today Fact Check team reverse-searched the image and it was not difficult to find out the original picture that was photoshopped.

TinEye search showed almost same images of Heeraben Modi but holding a green box with the emblem of Pakistan government.

A closer look at the green box showed a greetings card stuck at the corner saying, "Mother of the Prime Minister of India."

Inside the box, it was written, "With the compliments of Prime Minister of Pakistan."

A simple search on Google Images for keywords "hira ben + Pakistan" throws up several results that tell us about the context in which the original photo with green box was taken.

Many news reports in Indian and Pakistan media, like this report published on June 5, 2014, clearly state that Modi's mother was in fact holding the box with a white sari which was sent to her by the then prime minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif as a goodwill gesture.

Earlier on May 26, 2014, during his swearing-in, Narendra Modi had gifted a shawl in a red box for Nawaz Sharif's mother when the latter had come to India to attend the ceremony.

Original photo of Modis mother holding box which was sent to her by the then prime minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif as a goodwill gesture

Next day, Sharif's daughter Maryam Nawaz Sharif had also tweeted about it.

Thank u v much PM @narendramodi for the beautiful shawl for my grandmother. My father personally delivered it to her pic.twitter.com/QGj1qA2BQ2 Maryam Nawaz Sharif (@MaryamNSharif) May 27, 2014





Interestingly, if you check the About section of the Facebook page Narendra Modi WhatsApp Group, it describes itself as 'agricultural service'. But most of the posts on this page have nothing to do with agriculture.