Spread the truth:

Following the recent tragic events in France which have sparked worldwide debate over the spread of radical Islam vs Islamophobia, Journalist Deepak Chaurasia and a few prominent Indian News channels and News websites have reported that China’s state-run channel China Central Television (CCTV) broadcasted a portrait/painting of Prophet Muhammed in a TV series and a short clip of that controversial scene has gone viral on the Internet.

News Houses

India TV‘s website published an article which said

“चीन ने सरकारी टेलिविजन पर पैगंबर हजरत मोहम्मद की तस्वीर दिखाए जाने के बाद पाकिस्तान ने खामोशी अख्तियार कर ली है जबकि फ्रांस में जब पैगंबर मोहम्मद के कार्टून को दिखाया गया था तो पाकिस्तान ने कड़ा विरोध दर्ज कराया था।”

Translation: Pakistan has maintained silence after China’s State run channel CCTV broadcasted the portrait of Prophet Mohammed on Telivision while it had strongly opposed France on display of caricature/cartoon of Prophet Mohammed.

The Economic Times report said “The Chinese state-run TV channel China Central Television (CCTV) has recently broadcasted a caricature of the Prophet Muhammad. Arslan Hidayat, an Uyghur Activist, tweeted a video of a Chinese TV series depicting a scene of an Arab ambassador visiting China during the rule of Tang dynasty. The Arab ambassador can be seen in that video presenting a painting of the Prophet Muhammad to the Chinese emperor. The fact that the portrait of the Prophet was shown openly in a TV show has taken netizens by surprise in China, ET has gathered. Netizens have been asking whether it is blasphemous to show Prophet Muhammad’s paintings so brazenly in a TV show.”

Wion News network published an article reported the event with a similar angle and further added “Some Netizens have been wondering whether the Muslim world will now boycott Chinese goods after Prophet Muhamed was displayed in the TV series amid large scale reports of Chinese repression of Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang.” They also posted a video on Youtube about the same.

OpIndia published an article that said “Amidst the widespread controversy that has erupted over the depiction of caricatures of Prophet Muhammad in France, a video of a TV series telecast on a Chinese state-run TV channel China Central Television (CCTV) has gone viral on the internet.”

Twitter

Renowned Journalist Deepak Chaurasia tweeted –“चीन के सरकारी चैनल ने हाल ही में पैगंबर मोहम्मद का कैरिकेचर प्रसारित किया है। क्या मुस्लिम दुनिया अब पैगंबर मोहम्मद के कैरिकेचर दिखाए जाने पर चीनी वस्तुओं के बहिष्कार की अपील नहीं करेगी.”

Transaltion: China’s state-run channel has recently broadcasted a caricature of Prophet Mohammed. Would the Muslim world now boycott Chinese goods?

चीन के सरकारी चैनल ने हाल ही में पैगंबर मोहम्मद का कैरिकेचर प्रसारित किया है। क्या मुस्लिम दुनिया अब पैगंबर मोहम्मद के कैरिकेचर दिखाए जाने पर चीनी वस्तुओं के बहिष्कार की अपील नहीं करेगी. — Deepak Chaurasia (@DChaurasia2312) November 3, 2020

Archive

The video clip of the alleged Chinese TV series went viral amongst Twitteraties. Twitter users shared the clip claiming it to be a recent Television broadcast in China which shocked many netizens. The clip is claimed to be showing an a scene of an Arab ambassador visiting China during the rule of Tang dynasty. The Arab ambassador can be seen in that video presenting a painting of the Prophet Muhammad to the Chinese emperor.

OPIndia’s official handle tweeted “Chinese state-run channel shows the portrait of Prophet Muhammad, netizens ask if Muslims will boycott China.”

Chinese state-run channel shows the portrait of Prophet Muhammad, netizens ask if Muslims will boycott China https://t.co/lFlZzYrssm — OpIndia.com (@OpIndia_com) October 28, 2020

Twitter handle @SengeHSering which has 13k followers shared the controversial clip with the caption “China makes a movie, and shows Prophet Mohammad in it. Where is the outrage? Iran? Saudi Arabia? Pakistan? Malaysia? Turkey? Muslims are not slaves of Allah. Communist Chinese leader is what they really worship.”

China makes a movie, and shows Prophet Mohammad in it.

Where is the outrage? Iran? Saudi Arabia? Pakistan? Malaysia? Turkey?

Muslims are not slaves of Allah.

Communist Chinese leader is what they really worship pic.twitter.com/IcBr45x8jn — #SengeSering ས།ཚ། (@SengeHSering) October 27, 2020

Twitter user @SalihHudayar who claims to be an Uyghur muslim shared the clip with the caption :

Related