A video of a Krishna eagle resting on a Garuda statue in a Krishna temple in Kerala is going viral on social media. According to the video, the bird, considered the mount of Lord Krishna in Hindu mythology, flew inside the temple and has been sitting there since.

The caption along with the video on Facebook says, “In a Sri Krishna temple in Idukki District of Kerala, an Eagle (called Krishna eagle) flew inside the temple and sat on the Garuda statue, opposite to Lord Krishna and since then, he is not leaving the place. Devotees are watching and praying but the Eagle is undeterred by the happenings around.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This is not a recent incident. The video is three years old and the eagle was brought to the temple by locals as it had injuries on its legs.

Since the voiceover in the video says the incident took place “last Thursday” and no exact date has been mentioned, it is being misinterpreted as a recent video and shared on WhatsApp and YouTube as well.

The archived versions of some Facebook posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Using related keywords, we found a similar video on Twitter which was uploaded in 2017. According to the Malayalam voiceover in the video, the incident took place in a Krishna temple in Chakkupallam village in Kerala’s Idukki district.

Taking clues from this, we contacted the temple management committee, which agreed that the video is old and no one has seen a similar bird around the temple in 2020. The temple management got us across to K Chandran, a local farmer who had brought the bird to the temple in 2017.

Chandran told AFWA, “I found the eagle inside a forest in early 2017. It was stuck inside the branches of a tree and had wounds on its legs. As claimed on social media, it never flew inside the temple. I brought it to the temple for treatment. People made it sit on top of the Garuda statue for making videos. The temple priest took care of it for almost 10 days and it later flew away.”

Therefore, the claim that the eagle flew inside the Krishna temple in Kerala and has been sitting on a Garuda statue ever since is misleading. The incident is from 2017, wherein some locals brought the injured bird to the temple for treatment. It flew away after recovering.