With elections in Bihar expected later this year, politics in the state is heating up. Social media too is not far away from the frenzy. Among several political posts, a video clip has gone viral on social media with the claim that the Patna BJP MLA was thrashed by locals over bad road conditions.

Several Facebook users have posted a video showing a group of men thrashing some other men. The caption in Hindi translates to, "In Bihar's smart city Patna, locals thrashed the BJP MLA. The dispute started after locals said they would not vote if there are no proper roads. The MLA used foul language, after which he was beaten up."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that clippings of two separate incidents from West Bengal were clubbed to create the viral video. The incidents have no relation to Bihar.

Multiple Facebook users have shared the video. The archived versions of the posts can be here, here and here.

We found that the viral video is a combination of two separate clippings. We used a combination of InVID, reverse image search and keyword search to find the truth.

The first part of the video could be found on the YouTube channel of "Prabhat Khabar", and also on the website of "Janta ka Reporter". Both media outlets had published this news on October 6, 2017. As per these news reports, West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and other party leaders were beaten up by some Gorkha youths in Darjeeling.

Paste: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nFOMuu_DhI4

This incident was also reported by "The Hindu". Ghosh was heckled and his supporters assaulted by some locals in Darjeeling on October 5, 2017, while he was on a two-day visit to the Hills. According to the report, Ghosh had alleged that supporters of rebel Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) leader Binoy Tamang were behind the attack.

In the second part of the viral video, a different person can be seen being thrashed by a group of men. We found that a longer version of the video was uploaded by the YouTube channels of news agency ANI and also by news channel "India TV" () on October 19, 2016.

According to these reports, on October 18, 2016, Union minister Babul Supriyo and his convoy were attacked allegedly by Trinamool Congress supporters in Bengal's Asansol. During the scuffle, a BJP worker was also reportedly thrashed and his clothes ripped off.

This incident was also reported by "The Times of India". We also searched for reports if any BJP MLA was recently beaten up in Bihar but could not find any.

Hence, it is confirmed that videos of two unrelated incidents from West Bengal were clubbed together to make the viral video clip, and a false claim made that locals in Patna thrashed the BJP MLA. The video clippings have no relation to Bihar.