Amid protests in various parts of the country against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens, a video is going viral on social media in which a large number of Sikhs can be seen shouting slogans. It is being claimed that the crowd is protesting against NRC in Punjab.

Facebook user "Sultan Khan" posted a 2-minute-26-second video with a caption in Hindi that translates to, "Not a single policeman present during today's protest against NRC in Punjab."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The viral video is three years old and of a protest rally by radical Sikh groups in Amritsar, against a rally called by Hindu outfits in the city.

Till the filing of this story, the video has already been viewed over 1.33 lakh times and shared more than 10,000 times. The archived version can be seen here.

The video has been widely shared on Facebook.

To verify the claim, we reverse-searched key frames from the video using InVID tool that led to the same video on YouTube which was uploaded by a YouTube channel called "Khalsa Gatka Group" on May 25, 2016. The caption along with the video says, "Live From Beas (Shiv Sena not Come to Amritsar)".

AFWA probe

To know the truth about the video, we dialed a mobile number given in the "About" section of the YouTube channel. The number is of Bhupinder Singh, one of the administrators of the YouTube channel.

Singh said he had himself shot the video in May 2016. According to him, it was a counter march called by Sikh groups against a 'Lalkar Rally' called by Hindu right-wing outfits in Amritsar. He said that due to the prevailing tension at that time, a large number of police personnel were deployed.

To authenticate the claim, we searched about the incident and came across a news report related to the protest rally. We found that the viral video is indeed of radical Sikhs gathered on Beas bridge at NH-1 near Amritsar. In the video, slogans in support of Khalistan and militant Sikh leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale can be heard clearly.

According to local media reports, various Hindu groups had called for a 'Lalkar Rally' in Amritsar on May 25, 2016, and to counter it, Sikh hardliners too organised an 'Anakh Rally' on the same date. During the march, the crowd raised slogans against Hindu outfits, even though the 'Lalkar Rally' was called off about three days back.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the viral video is not of Sikhs protesting against NRC, but of Sikh hardliners taking out a protest rally more than three years back.