If social media posts are to be believed, even death might now be a costly affair in India. A tweet that was widely shared criticised the Goods and Services Tax, claiming, “You cannot die without paying 18 per cent GST for a crematorium.”

The tweet contained a postcard featuring the photo of the Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Nirmala Sitharaman. It also listed a number of goods and services and the corresponding tax levied on them.

advertisement Achea Din For #ModiGovt and @nsitharaman be like.

You cannot die without paying 18% GST for Crematorium.

Not letting to die peacefully too is a sign of Achea Din? pic.twitter.com/cir2t9iFmC — AMENTO T ZHIMO (@AmentoTzhimo) July 20, 2022

AFWA’s investigation found that there is no 18 per cent GST on crematorium services. However, the same tax rate applies to work contracts inside crematoriums.

AFWA Probe

A PIB press release issued on June 29 states that the GST Council approved 18 per cent GST on “works contract for roads, bridges, railways, metro, effluent treatment plant, crematorium etc.”

During the 47th GST Council Meet held in Chandigarh last in June, the council increased the above mentioned taxation from 12 per cent to 18 per cent. A government official told Mint that the revision was done "to correct the inverted duty structure as inputs such as cement, steel etc. attract GST at the rate of 28 per cent/18 per cent. This has been done on the recommendation of the group of ministers.”

ALSO READ| Fact Check: Was this man arrested for arson in Ballia amid Agnipath protests? Cops say otherwise

Under GST, funeral services are tax-exempt. According to a gazette notification published on April 12, 2017, no GST applies to mortuary or cremation services.

Schedule III of the notification lists things that won’t be treated as a supply of goods or services. Services of funeral, burial, crematorium, or mortuary including transportation of the deceased are part of this list.

The PIB and The Times of India have also debunked the claim about GST levied on funeral services.

Claim: There will be 18% GST on Crematorium Services.#PIBFactCheck



This claim is #Misleading.



There is no GST on funeral, burial, crematorium, or mortuary services.



In this reference GST @ 18% is only applicable for work contracts and not the services. pic.twitter.com/7HE2MPMs1s — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) July 20, 2022

Hence, we can conclude that the claim is false. The 18 per cent GST is not meant for crematorium services. Rather it applies to work contracts inside crematoriums.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena)