Spread the truth:

A video of a group of women beating a man while he is being dragged by other people is going viral on social media with a claim that the man belongs to the Bharatiya Janata Party. In the 10-second video clip, a group of women is seen thrashing a man and dragging him with a bold caption written on the video that says-

बीजेपी नेता की हुई धुलाई।

The video is forwarded with a false claim that reads-

” अब तो लगता है महिलाओ ने भी नारंगियों को ढूंढ़ ढूंढ़ कर हाथ सफाई सुरु कर दी है/ BJP नेता की धुलाई”

Translation: Now it seems that the women have also started cleaning their hands after searching for the oranges / BJP leader’s washing. The video can be seen on various platforms with the false claim.

Facebook

Twitter

Truth

The accused does not have any links with the Bharatiya Janata Party. This is a casting couch case.

While searching about the real video, we ran the video on Invid and got several keyframes. From one of the keyframes, we found a Marathi tweet with the same video. The caption of the video was in Marathi that reads-

मुलींना चित्रपटात रोल देण्याचे आमीष देऊन शारीरिक संबंधाची मागणी करणाऱ्या ‘शिवसेना’ पदाधिकाऱ्यासह आरोपींना मनसे च्या महिला कार्यकर्त्यांनी आणि पदाधिकाऱ्यांनी कपडे फाटेस्तोर चोपलं.

Translation: MNS women activists and office-bearers slapped the accused, including a Shiv Sena office-bearer, for luring girls into a role in a film.

We also ran some keywords search on google and found some news reports on a similar incident. One report was published in the Outlook on July 30, 2021. The report was done by the Press Trust of India. According to the report, the incident took place in Thane, Maharashtra. Police have arrested a woman and three others in Thane city of Maharashtra for allegedly threatening and molesting a female artist by promising to give a role to her in a Hindi film.

Another news report by the Navbharat on July 30, 2021. The news report has a screenshot of the viral video and claiming that the incident took place in Thane. According to the report, the accused told the girl that she has been selected for a role in an upcoming Hindi film. The accused asked the victim to meet the director/producer of the film in Thane. He told that the producer/director is coming from Lucknow and told the girl that he has to obey her demands to get the role in the film. The victim was called to a farmhouse on GB Road in Thane city on Thursday. The girl told her parents about this and also contacted the film unit of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS).

We also found the same video uploaded by a verified Facebook page of MNS Chitrapat Sena Ameya Khopkar. In the video, MNS Chitrapat Sena Ameya Khopkar is seen narrating the incident. Also, in the video, he does not mention that the accused has any links with the Bhartiya Janata Party.

Related