As Jammu and Kashmir loses its special Constitutional status, social media is bombarded with old photographs and videos claiming to show the "current situation of Kashmir". And now, a set of three photographs showing alleged police brutality on women is being shared widely as that from the Valley.

The claim

Facebook user "Fazlul Hoque Patowary" shared three pictures in a group called "Deen E Islam". The three pictures show police misbehaving with women.

advertisement

The caption with the post says, "Current situation of Kashmir! Plz pray for them." Till the time of filing this story, the post has been shared more than 100 times. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The fact

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the images are not recent. These images are from separate incidents and clicked in different years.

The probe

AFWA used reverse image search to unveil the truth.

Photo 1:

This image showing a policeman pulling the dupatta of a woman was traced to a blog published on January 3, 2011. The blog, titled "Genocide in Kashmir", talks about the situation of the Valley at that time. We were unable to confirm whether the image was clicked in Kashmir.

Photo 2:

This photo showing a policeman kicking a woman is around three years old. We found this image in a photo gallery posted by local news website Greater Kashmir.

The caption of the photo reads: "A policeman kicks a woman for resisting their attempts to snatch body of slain Kulgam youth from protesters at Zampa Kadal on Saturday. Aman Farooq/GK"

Photo 3:

This picture of a woman touching the feet of a policeman was clicked on May 17, 2004. We found this image on Shutterstock with the image credit to Altaf Qadri.

The content of the page is restricted on the website but Google's cache for this page can be seen here.

The caption to the image says, "Sameena Sister of Rafiq Ahmad Throws Her Veil at a Police Officer's Feet Begging Him for the Release of Her Brother during a Demonstration for His Release."

We could not confirm whether this picture was from Kashmir.

Thus, it is clear that none of the three images are recent visuals from the Valley.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Old video from Kashmir shared as protest against revocation of Article 370