Correction: We were pointed out for a sentence in the story which read: India Today’s Fact Check team reveals the NRC surveyors could still have done a better job. The objection came over editorialising the fact-check story. We realised that it was not in sync with our fact-check policy and removed all such references. In the same story, a reader pointed out that we were talking about multiple sources without specifying them. Abiding by our principle of maintaining transparency, we specified the sources in the story.

advertisement

Assam's National Register of Citizens (NRC) has sparked a national debate on citizens versus aliens, alleged witch-hunt against ethnic minorities and on 40 lakh people expected to be stripped of their land and voting rights in the north-eastern state.

The entire exercise, monitored by the Supreme Court, took almost three years to complete.



The fact check team reached out to RTI activist Mahmud Pracha, official documents, and NGO Social Justice Forum (SJF), and found that a large number of applicants possibly had no access to data or information in order for them to establish their Indian roots on the 2015-18 NRC.

Remember, a 1951 NRC and electoral rolls up to the midnight of March 24, 1971, collectively called the legacy data, was a key for Assam residents to prove citizenship in the latest registry drive.

This exercise, which began in 2015, was carried out by a nodal office involved in validation of documents and field verifications, following which the draft NRC was released.

The fact-check here lists out what could have led to 40 lakh people being left out of the new registry:

1. Linkage documents: A linkage document could be anything ranging from land deeds, birth and marriage certificates, university or school degrees, voter lists, ration cards and bank/insurance/post-office records.

Per the NRC norms, an applicant was required to produce any of them to prove his/her relationship with Indian-born ancestors enrolled in the NRC of 1951 or any electoral roll up to 1971.

Many of the 40 lakh left out of the new NRC, the fact check team found, had failed to provide linkage documents to confirm their family trees.

Take for example a rural woman's marriage certificate issued by a circle officer, a gram panchayat secretary and a village sarpanch called gaonburah.

NRC surveyors carried out a physical re-verification of such documents after complaints of bogus submissions surfaced.

The fact-check discovered a number of female applicants might have failed the re-verification process that required them to present additional documents or "legacy persons", such as their fathers, which they couldn't.

Prateek Hajela, the NRC's state coordinator, told India Today that inability to provide linkage documents appears to be the biggest reason why applicants couldn't substantiate their claims.

2. Incomplete electoral rolls: Legacy data comprising voter lists and the 1951 registry was key to validating citizenship claims.

Electoral rolls since 1951 for all districts were made available both online and at the NRC Sewa Kendra (NSK). But the fact-check found it to be incomplete.

A look at documents obtained under the RTI from the office of the NRC's executive director reveals entries for many of the districts missing from the voter rolls for different years.

This could be another reason for a large number of disqualified from the new NRC draft.

In absence of back-end data, Hajela explained, applicants were asked to provide other documents to support their claims. But it seems many couldn't.

3. Missing NRC 1951 data: The 1951 National Register of Citizens was prepared after the census the same year.

It covered each and every person from the 1951 enumeration. That data was stored in the offices of deputy commissioners and sub-divisional officers of districts.

advertisement

The same registers were transferred to police in the early 1960s.

RTI documents confirm that 1951 NRC data for three districts -- Sivasagar, Cachar and Karbi Anglong -- was missing.

This, experts fear, could also be a factor behind the rejection of claims.

Hajela claimed all such stumbling blocks were discussed when the process was launched in 2015 in order to come up with measures to tackle them. But it looks like little could be achieved in absence of valid papers.

4. D-voters: People disenfranchised earlier during electoral roll revisions for failing to prove citizenship credentials are referred to as D-voters in Assam.

They were, however, allowed to apply for inclusion in the 2015 NRC. But authorities mandated that their entry in the new registry would rest on the Foreigners Tribunal certifying them as non-foreigners.

Per the Assam government figures, there are 1.25 lakh D-voters in the state. Their applications were put on hold. Their descendants too will have to wait to find a place in NRC till the tribunal decides their fate.

5. Data entry errors: Mistakes at the data entry stage in key documents to prove ancestry like voter list/NRC might have also have led to a large number of denials.

advertisement

Spelling mistakes/mismatches, the fact-check found, became another reason to reject claims.

There are allegations that affidavits submitted to correct such errors were not considered.

6. Poor response from other states: The NRC nodal office had sent close to six lakh applications to various other states for verification. Out of them, only 30 per cent responses were received.

In its affidavit to the supreme court, the NRC says 11,4971 cases alone were sent to the Mamata Banerjee government to authenticate applications of residents claiming to have their roots in West Bengal.

But Assam, the affidavit says, received responses for only 7,438 cases.

The remainder were verified at the respective deputy commissioner level in various districts of Assam, Hajela said. In all probability, many of them could not be authenticated and were left out.

READ | Why Mamata Banerjee is so angry over Assam NRC

READ MORE | How time was ripe for Assam NRC

ALSO WATCH | Exclusive: Congress, TMC trying to destablise society by divisive comments: Kiren Rijiju