Spread the truth:

An image has been going viral on Facebook and Twitter that is visibly a piece of fan art which shows Sharukh Khan as the 18th century ruler Tipu Sultan. The image, on circulation resulted in a number of netizens urging the boycott of the movie. The name of the movie as seen from the poster is apparently ‘Sher-e-Mysore: Tippu Sultan, India’s First Freedom Fighter’. Notice that that the name ‘Tipu’ has been misspelt in the title.

The poster is follows:

Facebook

Archive

The caption on the post is as follows:

#पूर्ण_बहिष्कार

पहचाना नाम तो सुना ही होगा टीपू सुल्तान बहुत बड़ा दुर्भाग्य है हमारे देश का हम हिन्दुस्तानीयों पर कहर बरसाने वालों पर मूवी बनाई जाती है और इनको एक महान योद्धा के रूप में दर्शाया जाता है लाखों हिंदुओं का कत्ल करने वाला सैकड़ों मंदिरों को तोड़ने वाला हमारे ही देश में आज हीरो के रूप में दिखाई दे रहा है मूवी में एक्टर छाँट के लिए गया है जोकि पक्का जिहादी मानसिकता से ग्रसित है अब हिंदू ही 300 500 का टिकट लेकर इस मूवी को देखेंगे और मजे फिल्म इंडस्ट्री वाले लेंगे देश हमारा पैसा हमारा अत्याचार भी हम पर हुआ सताए भी हम गए उसके बावजूद सताए जाने वाले आज हीरो बन गए इस देश के वाह रे मेरे देश के दोगले बॉलीवुड भांड…….. बहिष्कार बहिष्कार बहिष्कार पूर्ण बहिष्कार आवाज दो हम एक हैं

The translation is as follows:

“Do you recognise? Must have heard the name Tipu Sultan? It’s unfortunate that in India movies are made on those who plundered the country and they are depicted as great warriors. He who maimed lakhs of Hindus, desecrated thousands temples is today being portrayed as a hero in our country. The actor selected for the role has been carefully chosen as he has the same ‘Jihadi’ mentality. Now Hindus will buy tickets worth Rs 300-500 to watch the movie and the film industry will enjoy. The country is ours, the money is ours, atrocities were unleashed on us, we were tortured but the perpetrator of all the atrocities has become the hero of this country today. Wow, you bigoted Bollywood buffoons. Boycott, boycott, boycott. Raise your voice for togetherness.”

Twitter

Archive

The caption written in Hindi reads:

“What do you think devotees ??

Should it be boycotted or not. ??

Please retweet your answer .. !!!”

Update on 27th May 2020

Sanjay Dixit (IAS//DMET//BITS// Author, Krishna Gopeshvara, Krishna Yogeshvara; upcoming: Nullification of 370+CAA, Krishna Parameshvara// Chmn Jaipur Dialogues//Ex-Prez, RCA) tweeted and deleted

https://twitter.com/Sanjay_Dixit/status/1265581417922088960

archive

Truth

The poster is taken from a fan made trailer. On further research, it can be established that there is no such movie in the pipeline as of now and the trailer is fictional and purely a fan made one. The video from which its taken is as follows was posted on YouTube and has garnered more than 38K views. The trailer begins with a disclaimer and the screenshot of the same is follows:

The original video can be found here and the screenshot of the same is as follows:

Related