As the final phase of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh concluded, a video of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath went viral on social media with some questionable claims.

In the video, Adityanath can be heard speaking in Hindi: “This is wrong. It is a common courtesy to answer the phone, or call back later if one is busy”

A number of Facebook and Twitter users shared the clip claiming CMO officials have stopped answering Adityanath’s calls, days before UP poll results are to be announced.

advertisement

“Officials aren’t taking the Chief Minister’s calls,” read one such caption in Hindi. Others predicted a change in regime in Uttar Pradesh.

Archived versions of some similar claims can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found these claims alongside the video to be misleading. The video is old and has nothing to do with the assembly polls.

AFWA Check

The logo of R9 News is clearly visible in the video. Therefore, we searched on the news channel’s YouTube with relevant keywords. We found the original longer news report uploaded to the R9 News YouTube channel on September 26, 2020.

In the original news report, the anchor is heard saying Adityanath was unhappy with his officials for not answering public representatives’ calls. At the 38-second mark, Adityanath appeared and said, “This is a serious issue. We learnt from Kanpur and a couple of other places that the CMO did not answer MPs’ and MLAs’ calls.”

The UP CM also asked his officials to apologise to the concerned parties in that video. At the 1-minute 14-second mark, the viral clip’s contents can be seen. This made the context of Adityanath’s words clear.

The TV news report also revealed that Adityanath made these comments during a review meeting for the Kanpur district and that the CM was upset after receiving complaints from Abhijeet Singh Sanga and Arun Pathak, two local Bharatiya Janata Party MLAs.

The date of the meeting was revealed in the R9 News clip. Consequently, we ran a keyword search with the information available and it led us to an ANI tweet from September 25, 2020. The tweet read, “Lucknow: UP CM Yogi Adityanath held a review meeting for developmental projects of Kanpur district via video conferencing, yesterday.”

Lucknow: UP CM Yogi Adityanath held a review meeting for developmental projects of Kanpur district via video conferencing, yesterday. pic.twitter.com/CCDUkUsOCG — ANI UP/Uttarakhand (@ANINewsUP) September 24, 2020

When we compared the photos in the tweet to the news clip, it became clear that both the pictures are from the same meeting which took place on September 24, 2020.

Thus, we conclude that the viral video of Yogi Adityanath was clipped from a news report and shared with false claims.