Spread the truth:

A picture of an aircraft’s interior is getting viral on all social media platforms claimed as PM Modi’s.

Claim: The picture claims to be of the new aircraft which are being purchased for the travel of the Indian Prime Minister.

Facebook

Official page of UP East Youth Congress posted –

archive

A Facebook page “I.T & Social Media Cell Congress” ‘s post has been shared by more than 1400 people

archive

Twitter

An Indian National Congress leader Jitu Patwari tweeted the viral picture from his official verified Twitter handle. The archived version of the picture can be accessed from here.

An Indian National Congress leader Pankaj Punia also tweeted the viral picture from his official verified Twitter handle. The archived version of the picture can be accessed from here.

रफेल के शोर के पीछे एक और हवाई जहाज आएगा। असल मे 2 आएंगे.. ड्रीमलाइनर, एकदम ड्रीमी ड्रीमी प्लेन। कीमत दोनो की मिलाकर कोई साढ़े आठ हजार करोड़ . खैर, इंटीरियर देखिये। ड्रीमी ड्रीमी होइए। किसी के तो अच्छे दिन आये हैं। pic.twitter.com/F4rSbnEs8r — Pankaj Punia (@PankajPuniaINC) July 31, 2020

archive

Raju Parulkar, retweeted a tweet

Sadaf Jafar, a congress foot soldier as claimed in the bio tweeted

Truth:

No the viral image of an aircraft’s interior claiming it to be from the Indian Prime Minister’s aircraft is not true.

The viral photo is few years old. The photo if from a Luxury Boeing meant to be hired. The owner is DeerJet

Website Privatefly gives complete details –

You can see the video of a similar luxury plane below

With the help of keyword search, we found several media stories that the aircraft which are being purchased for the use of Prime Minister and other VIP dignitaries are Boeing 777 aircraft. With the help of reverse image search, we found that the viral picture is from a Boeing 787 jet and not from the Boeing 777 aircraft as being claimed on social media. This viral image along with technical specifications about the Boeing 787 aircraft are available in an article on privatefly.com.

We also found this image in an article on business insider. This article can be accessed here.

Therefore in our investigation, it was found that the viral claims made about this picture were found to be false and this picture is not from Boeing 777 and instead it is from Boeing 787.

Related