Spread the truth:

#FakeNews over a dead body. A B&W photo is a viral on social media with Rahul and Rajiv Gandhi in it among a crowd. It’s claimed that they read Kalmaa at funeral of Indira Gandhi. Ex PM PV Narsimha Rao also is present in the photo with folded hands. Both Ex PM, Mr. Rajiv and MR. Rao are circled in the photo.

The message accompanying the photo reads –

“इन्दिरा की लाश के सामने राहुल और राजीव गांधी कलमा पढ रहे हैं फिर भी हमारे देश के लोगों को लगता है कि ये लोग ब्राह्मण हैं।”

Tranlation: “Rahul and Rajiv Gandhi are reading Kalmaa in front of Indira’s dead body, still our conutry’s people think these are Brahmans”

The following tweet, now deleted, was retweeted by more than 2000 times and was also retweeted by Subramnaian Swamy, Rajya Sabha MP, Fmr. Union Cabinet Minister, BJP National Exec. member

Vibhor Anand tweeted –

Rajiv and Rahul Gandhi reciting the kalma in the Namaz i Janaaza of Indira Gandhi and they claim that they are Janeudhaari Hindu Brahmin by descent. Open your eyes you HINDUS pic.twitter.com/XzwdqJDdpa — Vibhor Anand 🇮🇳 #ModiOnceMore (@vibhor_anand) February 1, 2019

WhatsApp

Facebook

Following post has more than 26000 Shares

Truth

The photo is not from the funeral of Indira Gandhi but is from Peshawar, Pakistan, funeral of Abdul Ghaffār Khān on January 21, 1988. He died at the age of 98



Indira Gandhi died in 1984, you can see Rajiv Gandhi lighting her funeral pyre

Abdul Ghaffār Khān (6 February 1890 – 20 January 1988) aka Bacha Khan fought against British. A close friend of Mohandas Gandhi, Bacha Khan was nicknamed the “Frontier Gandhi” in British India by his close associate Amir Chand Bombwal. – Wiki

Rajiv Gandhi along with family went to Peshawar to pay last respects to Bacha Khan’s funeral.

Following is a colored but old video uploaded on YouTube 11 years ago, shot in 1988 showing the same –

Rajiv Gandhi visited Peshawar to pay last respects to Bacha Khan

On arrival at the funeral, he offered a flower bouquet on the casket with body of Bacha Khan

After offering the flowers he folded his hand in “Namastey gesture”

Later except for PV Narsimha Rao, all in the photo changed the gesture

The viral photo, on reverse search was found posted earlier with the Truth –

Rajeev Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and Narsihma Rao at Bacha Khan's funeral

Pic from #BachakhanAwKhudaiKhidmatgari vol 2 pic.twitter.com/rUxOXyaJXS — Mohsin Dawar (@mjdawar) January 26, 2016

More Fakes

Approx 500 Shares

*इन्दिरा की लाश के सामने एक तरफ राहुल और राजीव गांधी कलमा पढ रहे हैं,और जनता को बेवकूफ समझते हुए बताते हैं कि हम दत्रादेय गोत्र वाले ब्राह्मण हैं ,और दूसरी ओर अपनी धार्मिक मान्यता अनुसार नरसिम्हा राव हाथ जोडे खडे हैं* pic.twitter.com/WFnQhuOQrt — Mahendar Gujaar (@GujaarMahendar) February 1, 2019

Related