With several firms shutting shop and most others opting for cost-cutting measures, unemployment has seen a massive rise due to the pandemic. Lakhs of youths have lost their jobs in the private sector, leading to depression, anxiety, and even suicide.

Amid this, a video of some young people protesting in front of a convoy and police lathicharging them is viral on social media with the claim that unemployed youths of Uttar Pradesh stopped the cavalcade of chief minister Yogi Adityanath to demand jobs.

advertisement

The caption in Marathi with one such video uploaded on Facebook translates to, "Unemployed youths protested by stopping the convoy of Yogi Adityanath. Will the media show this?"

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This video was captured when Yogi visited Lucknow University in 2017.

The video is being widely shared on social media with the misleading claim. Some of the archived versions can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

In the video, the youths can be seen raising black flags in front of the convoy and sloganeering "Yogi Sarkar Murdabad". Also, police can be seen lathicharging and beating up the protesters.

With the help of InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found the video is from 2017 when Yogi, along with Governor Ram Naik, visited Lucknow University to attend Hindavi Swarajya Divas, an event held in the honour of Maratha empire founder Shivaji.

We found several media reports carrying similar videos and images of the incident.

According to a report by Newslaundry which carried the video in question, the incident took place on June 7, 2017, when some 25 students, mostly activists of Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha, the students' wing of Samajwadi Party, protested outside Lucknow University.

The same video was uploaded by Newslaundry on its official YouTube channel on July 6, 2017.

According to a report by The Indian Express, the protesters said the event that Yogi had come to attend was a BJP programme organised from the varsity's and students' money.

As per reports, police arrested 11 protestors, including two girls, and they were in judicial custody for 20 days. The varsity suspended eight students and banned them from using campus facilities for breaching the CM's security cover.

Also, we could not find any recent report saying youths in UP stopped Yogi's convoy. Hence, it is clear that the viral video is more than three years old and not related to the present unemployment situation in India.