The Maharashtra government recently tightened security around the grave of Afzal Khan in the Satara district of Maharashtra following political controversies over Aurangzeb's tomb in Aurangabad and the Gyanvapi mosque in Varanasi.

Amid this, people shared a post that states: “Court had ordered to demolish the tomb of Afzal Khan at Pratapgad in Maharashtra. But the Maharashtra government still continues to protect it.”

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that this claim was misleading. No court in India ordered the demolition of the tomb of Afzal Khan in Satara. Following Public Interest Litigations (PIL), the Bombay High Court had ordered to take legal actions against encroachments around the tomb.

Archived versions of posts with similar claims can be seen here and here.

AFWA Probe

An old report by OneIndia, published in 2007, stated that the Bombay High Court had directed the Conservator of Forests to take legal action within four weeks against all illegal constructions surrounding Afzal Khan's tomb.

A 2017 India Today report said that the Bombay High Court on February 2, 2017, directed the Maharashtra government to do away with illegal constructions around Afzal Khan's tomb.

The report stated that the bench was hearing a contempt petition filed by petitioner Milind Ekbote against illegal construction on forest land around the grave of Afzal Khan. Neither report mentioned orders for the demolition of the tomb itself.

On the website of the Bombay High Court, we found a series of orders and judgments related to this issue. While many of these orders did not mention the exact appeal of the petitioners, we found one order, dated January 30, 2008, that quotes: “As the petitioners contended that in the name of the original tomb of Afzal Khan, certain persons were encroaching upon the land and using it for their benefits.”

Varsha Laxmanrao Deshpande was the petitioner of this PIL and Uday Warunjikar was the advocate for the petitioner. India Today contacted Deshpande, who is also an advocate.

He said, “I had not made an appeal to demolish the tomb of Afzal Khan. Following my PIL, the court ordered to take legal steps against illegal encroachments surrounding the tomb. Such encroachments include a few rooms and even a Dargah.”

To further confirm the claim, we got in touch with the district administration of Satara. “We have never received any court order that directs us to demolish the original tomb of Afzal Khan,” Sekhar Singh, the district collector of Satara, told India Today.

advertisement

Afzal Khan was a commander who served the Adil Shahi dynasty of Bijapur, and fought against Shivaji. Khan was killed and his army was defeated in the Battle of Pratapgad on November 10, 1659.

Thus, we concluded that the claim was misleading. No court ordered the demolition of the tomb of Afzal Khan in Maharashtra.