A nearly five-year old video showing women in burqas escaping a raid on a massage parlour in Karachi, Pakistan is being shared with false claims on Indian social media.

The clip is going viral with a false claim that the video shows women who participated in protests at Shaheen Bagh, Delhi against the Citizenship Amendment Act, were busted while carrying out a prostitution racket during the ongoing lockdown in India.



BOOM found out that the video was shot in Karachi in 2015 and the claims linking it to Shaheen Bagh are false.

The 90-second-long video shows a group of women escaping from the first floor of a building located in what seems to be a market area. Onlookers gathered beneath the building can be seen helping them get down. In the background, a man can be heard speaking in Hindi.

The video has been shared with a Hindi caption claiming 'Shaheen Bagh lionesses caught red-handed while indulging in prostitution'.

(Hindi: बुरखे की आड़ में सरेआम धंधा करती पकडी गयीं शाहीन बाग की शेरनियां)

Also read 'Imposter': Abhijit Banerjee On Fake Twitter Account Made In His Name

Watch the video below and check its archived version here.

The same video has also been shared with several different claims linking it to the ongoing lockdown. Check the posts below.

Claim: When you go for Shopping in lockdown and they Seal the shop.

Claim: The urge to go shopping during lockdown was met with this response.

(Hindi: लॉक डाउन में चढ़ा मुस्लिम औरतों पर शॉपिंग का भूत कुछ इस तरह उतरा )

Also read Nashik Police's Celebration Of Couple Who Married At Home Viral As Mumbai

Fact Check

We broke up the video into key frames and found other posts through a reverse image search on Yandex - a Russian search engine. The link shared the same video with an Urdu headline written in English script. The video was uploaded on June 15, 2015.

The headline with the video, in Urdu, reads 'FIA Raids a Brothel In Karachi, See How Prostitutes Are Running Away'.

(Karachi Mein Fahashi Ke Addey Par FIA Ka Chaapa, Dekhiye Tawaifein Kaise Bhaag Rahi Hain).

After a keyword search, BOOM found another video uploaded on June 17, 2015 with a similar headline which read 'Watch FIA raids in massage parlour, khadda market karachi pakistan (Sic)'.





BOOM also found a Facebook post sharing the same video on June 13, 2015, with a caption reading 'Fia chapa in khadda market'.





Watching the video closely, BOOM saw the name of Zen Academy painted on the wall of the building from which the women were escaping.









We checked the name on Google maps and saw that Zen Academy was located in Khadda market, Karachi.

Also read Photo Of Chopper Showering Petals On Migrant Workers Is Morphed









BOOM also found an article published in a web portal called Awami Politics which carried a screenshot from the same video. The article was published on June 14, 2015.









Also read Is Thrombosis The Leading Cause Of COVID-19 Deaths? A FactCheck