Even as elections are underway in Bihar, an image of an overturned bus surrounded by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel is viral on social media. The image is circulated with a claim that as many as nine jawans were killed in a bus accident while on their way for election duty in Darbhanga district.

The claim which is in Hindi translates to, "Nine soldiers martyred after a bus full of BSF personnel going for election duty overturned in Darbhanga district. Salutes to them. Jai Hind."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. Ten BSF personnel, including the driver, were injured after a bus carrying them overturned at Darbhanga-Muzaffarpur border in Bihar on November 4. However, no life was lost in the accident.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, here and here.

AFWA PROBE

When we did a keyword search on the internet, we couldn't find any recent report on nine BSF jawans being killed in a bus accident during election duty in Bihar. However, reports were found on BSF jawans injured after a bus carrying them overturned in Bihar on November 4.

According to a report by Live Hindustan, 10 BSF personnel including the driver were injured after their bus overturned into a pit about 10 feet down the road. The jawans were on their way to Singhwada for election duty. The incident took place between Thakania and Budhkara village of Katra police station area of Muzaffarpur district on Singhwara-Barri Kothi road, according to the report.

A report by Aaj Tak published on November 5 said the condition of the BSF personnel are stable and they were admitted to the nearby Community Health Center for treatment. The reports also carried similar images of an overturned bus.

AFWA reached out to Aaj Tak's Bihar bureau chief Sujeet Jha who confirmed to us that the accident was not major and the injured BSF personnel were taken to a health centre in Singhwara, Darbhanga district.

We contacted Dr Premchand, medical officer of Singhwara Pubic Health Centre who treated the 10 BSF personnel. The doctor confirmed to AFWA that all 10 jawans were discharged the same day.

Rubbishing the viral claims, Dr Premchand said, "The viral claims are false. All the 10 BSF personnel had very minute injuries. None of them was in serious condition. All 10 jawans were discharged the same day,"

According to a November 3 report by The New Indian Express, a Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawan was killed after he was run over by an unidentified vehicle while on his way to attend election duty in Bihar's East Champaran district. The incident happened on November 2 night near Dumra Chowk in the Kotwa police station area.

However, no news of the death of nine BSF soldiers was found.

It is clear that the viral photo with the claim of nine BSF soldiers dying in a bus crash is misleading. All soldiers got away with minor injuries and were discharged from the hospital.