In this season of allegations and counter-allegations, Congress president Rahul Gandhi had recently claimed that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) patriarch Lal Krishna Advani was 'kicked out' from the stage by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a rally. Soon after, a video began circulating on social media showing BJP president Amit Shah 'insulting' LK Advani.

Among others, the video was posted by a Facebook page called 'With Arvind Kejriwal' which has already been shared by more than 2,000 users.

advertisement

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The viral video has been edited deliberately to spread misinformation.

The caption of the video reads: "Khuleaam beizzati! Ahenkaar ki parakastha apne buzurg ko peeche bhej rahe hai jinhone party ko khada kiya. [Open insult! The epitome of pride is sending a veteran at the back, who had established the party.]"

There are two parts of the video- the first shows a photo of Modi, Shah and Advani on the stage at a BJP event. In the photo, Shah can be seen pointing behind as Advani is standing. The second part of the video shows Shah and Advani speaking after which the former pointed to something behind him and Advani followed.

What AFWA found:

A logo of 'Political Kida' can be seen in the video which is a Facebook page. The longer version of the video can be seen below. It is clear from this version that it has been mischievously edited to show Shah directing Advani to go at the back. But the story is totally different.

In the original video, it can be seen that Shah is, in fact, directing Advani towards the dais placed behind them. Advani then goes on to the dais to deliver his speech.

Though the voices of none of the leaders can be heard in the video, it seems that Shah was asking Advani whether he would like to deliver his speech from the chair he was sitting on or walk up to the dais.

The video is from BJP's National Council meet held in August 2014 at Jawaharlal Nehru stadium in Delhi. Many big leaders of the BJP were present at this meet. At one place in the video, Shah could be seen touching Advani's feet.

Whether Advani is being insulted in the BJP is a matter of debate, but in this video, the claim of disrespecting him is false.