Amid the coronavirus scare, a message, along with a web link, is going viral on WhatsApp groups and Facebook, saying that by logging on to the link, one will get free masks from the Narendra Modi government.

The web links being shared by Facebook users such as "Mukesh Kumar Kumar Raj", pages such as (Bihar Vidyalaya Pariksha Samiti) and others are mostly "https://pmmaskyojna.blogspot.com/" or "https://www.narendrmodiawasyojna.in/?m=1".

advertisement

The message in Hindi along with the web link translates to, "Due to rise in coronavirus cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided to give free masks under Swachh Bharat. You can click on the link mentioned below and order your mask, wear it and be part of Swachh Bharat." The archived version of the post is saved here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the web links to be fake. These links are typical telemarketing scams. The Swachh Bharat website does not give any kind of offer as claimed in the viral posts.



This message is quite viral on Facebook.

Clicking on the web link, a form appears with PM Modi's picture and several masks on display. The form asks details such as "name", "phone number", "address" and "pin code".

After submitting the form, another web link opens, which asks the user to share the post with 10 WhatsApp users. Even after following the process, another website for games and lottery opens, which asks one for registration and offers cash prizes.

But before one goes for these dubious web links and get trapped into a telemarketing scam, a hyperlink saying terms and condition clears the doubt at the very beginning. By clicking on terms and conditions, another web link opens, which says this is a prank just to fool you and your friends.

Also, it is to be noted here that none of the viral web links has gov on their URL, which is always present in any government website in India. The official Swachh Bharat website has also not made any offer on masks as claimed by the viral posts.

Hence, it is a completely false post doing the rounds on social media.