The Madhya Pradesh government has written to the central government requesting a ban on pornographic websites.

State Home Minister Bhupendra Singh says this will help the government in curbing the rising crime against women.

Data of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) reveals that for the past 10 years, Madhya Pradesh has had the highest number of rapes in the country. In 2016, the figure almost touched 5,000.

advertisement

Singh attributes these cases to the rising consumption of pornographic data. So, as a quick fix, he has advocated banning all porn websites in Madhya Pradesh.

To substantiate his rationale, Singh also claimed that the decision was taken after the government conducted studies in this regards. He said these studies arrived at the conclusion that pornography is the reason for rising crime against women in the state.

"Pornographic websites are one of the biggest reasons for crime against women in the state, especially those committed by younger boys with easy access to adult content," Singh said.

He has however not revealed any information about the studies conducted by the state government, their findings, methodology, sample size, among others.

Furthermore, the minister's arguments hold little ground when faced with scientific research.

In 2014, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHN) conducted a study to understand if there is any correlation between consumption of pornographic content and crime against women.

In its report, NIMHN concluded, "Easy access to pornography did not have a significant impact on rape rates and crime rates against women."

The same was stated by the central government a year earlier. In a written reply in the Lok Sabha, the then Union Home Minister P Chidambaram said, "The Ministry of Home Affairs is not aware of any direct co-relation between pornography and crime against women."

Singh's claim of there being a correlation between easy access to pornographic content and crime against women also appears punctured in face of the data on consumption of pornographic content in the state.

The 2017 annual report of Pornhub, the world's biggest porn website, India ranks third after the US and the UK in terms of watching adult content.

In the report, not a single city from Madhya Pradesh figures among the top five Indian cities when it comes to consumption of porn. Delhi tops the list, followed by Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata and Hyderabad.

Thus despite having a low consumption of pornographic content, Madhya Pradesh has had the highest number of rapes in the country for 10 years.

advertisement

This militates against the claim made by the home minister who reasoned that crime against women is rising because watching porn has become easier.

Rather than focusing on strengthening the policing system and improving conviction rate, the government's decision to ask the Centre to ban porn websites is ill-thought.

Porn consumption is Mizoram is one of the highest in the country but crime against women there is low. When it comes to conviction rate, Mizoram leads the country while Madhya Pradesh lags at the 11th position.

ALSO READ | Porn behind rising child rape cases, says MP home minister Bhupendra Singh

ALSO READ | We want complete ban on pornography, wives of porn addicts tell Supreme Court

ALSO WATCH | BJP minister seeks porn ban in Madhya Pradesh to curb child rapes