As the holy month of Ramzan began on May 5, a hot debate took centrestage on social media, pitting Kangana Ranaut against veteran actor Shabana Azmi on communal lines.

A quote attributed to Kangana, along with her photo, is being widely shared on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp groups.

According to the viral post, Kangana gave a stunning reply to Shabana Azmi. The claim further said, Shabana Azmi made insulting tweet on Hindu Goddesses on Navratri.

advertisement

Among the people who shared the post was S Gurumurthy, a member on the board of the Reserve Bank of India. However, Gurumurthy later deleted his tweet saying he had used the info of most reliable journalists.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the quote attributed to Kangana to be fake. We could not find any such interview or discussion where Kangana had said these words. We also contacted Kangana’s office for clarification. Neha Ansari from the actor’s PR team confirmed that the quote is not true.

However, the insulting tweet of Shabana Azmi on Hindu Goddesses being referred to in the viral post has its own story.

A tweet by Shabana during Durga Ashtami in September 2017 was slightly tweaked and it became viral last month. When the controversy erupted, Shabana initially denied having made any such comment. But India Today Fact Check found that she had tweeted along these lines two years ago. Our detailed fact check story about Shabana can be read here.

Kangana’s stunning reply to Shabana may not be true, but there is indeed a history of a public spat between the two actors.

Post-Pulwama attack, Kangana had called Shabana an anti-national for organising cultural events in Pakistan. According to many media reports such as one that appeared in DNA.

Kangana had attacked Shabana by saying, People like Shabana Azmi calling for a halt on the cultural exchange -- they are the ones who promote Bharat Tere Tukde Honge gangs... why did they organise an event in Karachi in the first place when Pakistani artistes have been banned after Uri attacks? And now they are trying to save face? The film industry is full of such anti-nationals who boost enemies' morals.

(With inputs from Anil Kumar)

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Will Shabana Azmi leave India if PM Modi returns to power?

ALSO READ: Fact Check: No, this young Muslim girl is not pregnant