Spread the truth:

While the Rajasthan Elections have come to an end, there has been intense spread of fake propaganda in the light of the 2019 Lok Sabha Elections. The latest target of this mudslinging in Rajasthan has been none other than the state’s Deputy Chief Minister, Sachin Pilot. An image (with bad quality) of a Congress worker blackening a flex banner of Narendra Modi with paint has become viral, with people uploading the image on Facebook and forwarding it on WhatsApp. The image has also received a lot of backlash because the person in the image bears some resemblance to Pilot.

The posts had first become viral on Facebook, with several Facebook users from Rajasthan sharing the post. Links are also given below for referral, below the images.

Naresh Kaushik’s post has been shard by more than 2000 people

Truth:

There was an incident where in fact, the person in the photograph is Satyajeet Tambe, a Maharashtra Youth Congress Committee leader and MLA of Ahmednagar City, who was responsible for this action. Moreover, there were tweets with the same image in October 2018. Tambe had done this as a mark of protest against the increasing fuel prices across the country.

The image given above was cropped to remove the Marathi text on the banner and was sent ahead as a forward, which many people from Rajasthan fell prey to. The posts were put up first by Maharashtra’s BJYM (Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha) Chapter on 11th October, 2018 and was condemned by many people during that time.

Original Image with Marathi Text above

The rise in Petrol and Diesel prices has devastated the household budget of every middle class and poor Indian. Under #ModiSarkar the rich get richer and the poor and middle class suffer. Great job @satyajeettambe on leading Maharashtra wide protests!! https://t.co/6e0MtGuscZ — Bhavna Jain (@INCBhavna) October 11, 2018

There is a video which verifies this claim, which is posted by Tambe himself.

Here is the original video:

More Fakes

#और_कितना_गिरोगे_कांग्रेसिओ..!! ये है राजस्थान के नवनियुक्त उप मुख्यमंत्री श्री सचिन पायलट,देखिये इनकी नीच हरकत को।सच में मन बहुत को बहुत दुख पहुँचता है ऐसे कुकृत्य देख कर।काँग्रेस के नेता और कितने गिरेंगे, और क्या ऐसे नेताओं को हम देश की बागडोर सौपेंगे..?? pic.twitter.com/juafNM1cva — Sugam Sharma (@Sugam_Sar) December 28, 2018

ये है राजस्थान के नवनियुक्त उप मुख्यमंत्री श्री सचिन पायलट , देखिये इनकी नीच हरकत को । यदि इन फोटोज को थोड़ा वायरल कर देंगे तो चार दिन में ये महाशय क्षमायाचना करने लगेंगे ।

👇🏻👇🏻👇🏻👇🏻👇🏻 pic.twitter.com/p726AfFXnV — JKBhagat (@JKBhagat12) January 3, 2019

Related