The image dates back to 2012 showing an incident of communal violence in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. It has no relation with the recent communal clashes in Delhi.

An image showing a group of people carrying swords in their hands is widely circulating on social media in the backdrop of the recent communal clashes in Delhi’s Jahangirpuri area. Users claim that this image was taken during the Jahangirpuri riots in Delhi and it shows how Muslims attacked Hindus in Jahangirpuri.

The caption of the image states, “Muslim mob attack hindu in delhi & all people say muslim are in danger in India #HindusUnderAttackInIndia #Hindus #DelhiRiots”

Another caption reads, “They’ve cleared one thing, either stop celebrating your festival or get ready to be keeled. It’s an open war against Hindus. #DelhiRiots #HinduLivesMatters #HindusUnderAttackInIndia

https://twitter.com/SujinEswar1/status/1515588717963988992

Tweet Link | Archive Link | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google, whose results led us to the same image published by the Hindu on 18 August 2012. The headline of the news report stated, “Mob goes berserk in Lucknow, targets media.”

The caption of the image mentioned that this image shows mob taking law in their hands after the prayer of Alvida namaz in Lucknow.

The caption states, “An unruly mob took the law into its own hands after the prayer of Alvida namaz in Lucknow on Friday.” Photographer Subir Roy captured the image.

According to the report, violence erupted after Alvida namaz on the last Friday of Ramzan in Lucknow as a mob, numbering about 500, went berserk and indulged in large-scale violence, targeting media persons in particular and even beating up several bystanders who were caught unawares. Several persons, including five press photographers and TV cameramen, were injured in stone pelting and other violence, and over a dozen vehicles, including those of a TV channel, were vandalized and torched.

The report further states that an FIR was lodged against unknown persons at the Hazratganj police station by the district administration.

Archive Link

According to a Times of India report published in 2012, the mob tried to disturb communal harmony in Lucknow by indulging in violence and arson under the garb of agitation to protest violence against Muslims in Assam and Myanmar. The mob reportedly came out of from a mosque in Wazirganj area marched in the form of s procession up to Buddha Park before turning violent. The eyewitnesses said that the mob was shouting slogans denouncing violence against Muslims in Assam and in Myanmar.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the image on social media to be False. The image has no relation with the ongoing communal violence in Jahangirpuri, Delhi. The image dates back to 2012 showing mob violence in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh.