A few days back, reports had come about Pakistani and Turkish students in Ukraine carrying the Indian national flag to cross the war-torn country. Union Minister G Kishan Reddy had earlier advised Indian students stranded in Ukraine to place the national flag on their vehicles for safe evacuation.

Now a video clip of Pakistan MPs purportedly chanting "Modi, Modi" during the parliamentary proceedings is circulated on social media with the claim that after the news of Pakistan students escaping Ukraine with the help of the Indian flag came in, pro-Modi slogans were raised inside the Pakistan Assembly.

advertisement

The caption in Hindi for one such video translates to English as, "As soon as the news reached Pakistan that the students of Pakistan in Ukraine succeeded in saving their lives by putting the tricolor of India on their vehicles, unprecedented ruckus started in the Parliament of Pakistan. The MPs echoed the slogans of Modi Zindabad."

The claim was shared by the official Twitter and Facebook pages of BJP Punjab. Rakesh Goel, the social media head of BJP Punjab had also shared the same claim.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false.

This is a 2020 video from Pakistan and it shows the opposition in Pakistan's Assembly shouting "voting, voting" for passing a resolution presented by them and not "Modi, Modi".

AFWA probe

With the help of appropriate keywords, we found that the video is from Pakistan's National Assembly session held on October 26, 2020. A resolution was passed in the Assembly against the "blasphemous" caricature carried by French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and the recent remarks made by French President Emmanuel Macron on Islam.

We watched a longer version of the video in question. In the 17 minutes 50-second version of the parliamentary proceedings uploaded on the verified YouTube channel of Dunya News, it is clear that the members are shouting "voting" and not "Modi".

We can also hear the Speaker calming down the members by asking them to be patient and saying that voting will take place.

The same video had gone viral on the internet in October 2020 with similar claims that pro-Modi slogans echoed in Pakistan Parliament. That time, AFWA had reached out to Mateen Haider, a senior journalist from Pakistan who confirmed that no slogans in support of the Indian government were raised in Pakistan's parliament on October 26.

"The only slogan that was raised mentioning Modi was ''Modi ka jo yaar hai, Gaddar hai gaddar hai' (Modi's friends are traitors). There were no pro-Modi slogans raised in the parliament," Haider had confirmed.

advertisement

We also found a report by Dawn published on October 26, 2020, that described the parliamentary proceedings in detail.

As per the report, the Assembly witnessed a ruckus after the opposition and the government both wanted to present their own versions of the resolution condemning the publication of blasphemous sketches in France.

When Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi began to address the house, opposition leaders started chanting "voting, voting", calling for the resolution presented by their side, according to the report.

The report also mentions that PM Narendra Modi's name cropped up during the proceedings when the ruling party accused the opposition of colluding with the Indian PM.

Also, pro-Modi slogans raised inside Pakistan's parliament would have made major headlines in both countries. However, we did not find any credible news reports from India or Pakistan on the same.

The same video was earlier fact-checked by AFWA in October 2020.

Hence, it is clear that the MPs in Pakistan's parliament were chanting "voting, voting" and not "Modi, Modi". The video is more than a year old and not recent.