Social media has witnessed a whopping increase of patriotic posts in the last few days after Pulwama attack, but sometimes they also come up with comments which might be well intention-ed, but misleading.

An army veteran Major Surendra Poonia posted two images on Friday (February 15) with #RIPBravehearts and comment - "Cost of freedom and pain of losing brothers!"

One of the pictures show coffins covered with tricolours and other one is of soldiers wiping their face.

advertisement

This post has been shared by hundreds of people on Facebook with comments believing it to be of Pulwama martyrs and their fellow colleagues.

India Today Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) found that this is a misleading post, neither of these images are related to Pulwama attack.

Screenshot of Facebook post

Please see the archived version here.

Major Poonia has also posted the same images with same caption on Twitter that have been retweeted 6,000 at the time of writing this article. People posted emotional patriotic comments on his tweet almost believing these images related to Pulwama.

Heart-wrenching

Cost of Freedom and Pain of loosing brothers !#RIPBravehearts pic.twitter.com/up9OorwxgT Major Surendra Poonia (@MajorPoonia) February 15, 2019

One user @ben10jt slammed Major Poonia on Twitter calling his post as "bluff".

By using reverse image search we found that both the images are of different incidents and of different times. The first image with coffins is not of Pulwama, Jammu and Kashmir, but of a deadliest Maoist attack in Sukma, Chhattishgarh in 2017, which killed 25 CRPF jawans.

This same image has been used by many websites like India Spend and Business Standard, which has used this photo giving courtesy to Reuters.

The second picture was originally used by The Seattle Times in July, 2011, with the caption "Indian armed forces personnel react to the heat during a march at India Gate after a tribute ceremony to commemorate 12 years since the victory of the Kargil war in New Delhi on July 26, 2011".

So this is not a picture of soldiers who are wiping off their sweat from the face after the drill. This picture was misused with false narratives several times in 2016 after Uri attacks on various social media platforms.