The central government is expected to introduce the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 in the Winter Session of Parliament starting November 29. The union cabinet has already approved the draft bills to repeal the contentious laws after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s surprise announcement.

Amid this, a video of vandalism at a programme venue has gone viral with the claim that this is the repercussion of the scrapping of the laws.

advertisement

Multiple Facebook users have posted this video that shows people throwing chairs and tearing banners on a stage. The Hindi caption on the Facebook video reads: “See brother, after the announcement of the withdrawal of all three agricultural laws, the trends have started coming...None of the “Godi” media will show it”

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video was shot in Karnal, Haryana, on January 10, 2021, when Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was supposed to attend a Kisan Mahapanchayat. But he had to cancel the programme as agitating farmers flung chairs, tore banners and vandalised the venue demanding revocation of the farm laws.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVid and reverse image search, we have found that the viral video has been on the internet since January this year.

Multiple YouTube channels had uploaded the same video on January 10 with the Hindi title saying: Farmers vandalised Khattar’s event venue.

Taking this as a clue with the help of keyword search, we have found a news clip of India TV uploaded on January 10, 2021, with the title in Hindi, “Haryana: After protest in Karnal the Mahapanchayat of CM Khattar is cancelled, we will protest”.

This incident was also widely reported by mainstream media outlets during that time.

According to these news reports, Khattar was supposed to attend a Kisan Mahapanchayat at Karnal. But he had to cancel the event after the agitating farmers vandalised his meeting venue in demand of the revocation of the controversial farm laws. Police had to resort to lathi-charge and use water cannons to control the mob.

Hence, the viral post claiming the vandalism is the aftermath of the repeal of farm laws is misleading, as it is clear that the viral video was shot 10 months before the withdrawal of the laws.