Kerala's Popular Front of India (PFI) has been under National Investigation Agency (NIA) investigation for its alleged terror links and an elaborate hawala and conversion racket exposed by India Today's special investigation team last year.

But is the suspected Islamic non-profit stockpiling swords for a future attack on the Hindus? At least, that's what a post which has gone viral on social media has alleged.

Screenshot of viral Facebook post

advertisement

India Today's Viral Test crew scrutinised the social-media warning against the PFI.

Sote raho Hinduo tumhare khilaf bhishan raktpat ki tayyari ker raha hai Muslim samudaye. Kerala main PFI ke jehadiyon ki asalla ki factory par chapa maar kar bhari matra main hathiyaron ka zakhira pakda gaya jahan se poore Bharat ki masjid madrasson mur Muslim-bahul ilakon main hathiyar bheje jaa rahe the. - Read the post by a user identified on Facebook as Bhagva Diwane

Translated in English:

"Keep sleeping Hindus, Muslims are planning a bloodshed against you. During a PFI factory raid in Kerala, large quantities of weapons were recovered. The arms and ammunition were being supplied to mosques and madrasas in Muslim-dominated areas across India."

India Today's Viral Test fact-checked the message and the picture showing swords and other sharp-edged weapons on the ground and stacked on shelves of what looked like a dilapidated shelter.

We first approached Kerala Police. Civil police officer Anoop VR from the Hi-Tech Crime Enquiry Cell rebutted the post as false.

There has been no such raid against the PFI where swords have been recovered. - He told the Viral Test team

The Viral Test also contacted the PFI.

Its general secretary Md Basheer called the alleged information an attempt to denigrate the Muslim organisation.

This is totally fake. It initially came as a Malayalam Facebook post. It's yet another attempt to malign the image of our organisation. - Md Basheer claimed PFI has brought the matter formally to the notice of the cyber cell

Basheer also shared the screenshots of the post in Malayam which accused the controversial non-profit of planning attacks on Hindus.

The message in the post read:

"SDPI's weapon haul seized. Cops were shocked to see two rooms full of swords. They also confiscated raw materials used to manufacture swords. Hindus, beware. Police say more weapons will be seized."

The SDPI is Social Democratic Party of India which is PFI's political arm.

Screenshot of Facebook post

Another Twitter user questioned people if they want to "vote for anit-ntional Congress".

Screenshot of post on Twitter

Here is a receipt of petition.

Petition receipt stamped by Office of the District Police Chief

So the Viral Test confirmed that the post targeting PFI was fake. We now set out to locate the origin of the photo falsely linked to the Popular Front of India.

The Viral Test discovered that the image was taken from a Sikh sword factory, called Khalsa Kirpan, in Punjab's Patiala.

Warehouse photo | Photo: IndiaToday

Its owner Bachan Singh confirmed that the photo showed his warehouse. He also showed our correspondent the place where picture was taken by whom he recalled was a group of tourists visiting his factory some years ago.

The image was taken from a Sikh sword factory | Photo: IndiaToday

The store has been here for over 20 years now. We supply material to the whole of Punjab. - Bachan Singh's brother Shingara Singh told India Today

Swords are referred to as kirpans in the Sikh religion. They are ceremonially used to honour dignitaries. The initiated members of the community carry small-sized kirpans as one of the five articles of faith.

These swords are given to honour our religious leaders and are also exchanged during fairs. People also keep them in their homes while tourists take them back as souvenirs. - Singh explained

The Viral Test busted the rumours of linking the PFI to a sword factory. But that doesn't mean it's a clean chit to the Popular Front of India whose top functionaries were caught on India Today camera confessing to large-scale conversions and involvement in hawala financing.