As Bihar gears up for the first phase of the Assembly election on October 28, election campaigns are in full swing. PM Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took the poll stage on October 23 to address a series of rallies in the state.

Amid this, an image of a massive crowd has gone viral on social media with the claim that it is from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's election rally held in Bihar.

advertisement

Multiple Facebook users have posted the viral image. The Hindi caption to one such post translates to English as, “A flood of people gathered in an election rally in Bihar to listen to Yogi Adityanath... The ground echoed with the slogans of Jai Shri Ram”.

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) has found the viral claim to be misleading. The image is not of Yogi Adityanath’s election rally in Bihar but of PM Narendra Modi’s rally held in Kolkata in 2014.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, and here.

AFWA Probe

With the help of reverse image search, we found the viral image was published in an article on the website “Desh Gujarat” on February 5, 2014. According to the article, the huge crowd had gathered during a 2014 rally held in Kolkata by PM Modi.

The same image was posted by a few Twitter users in 2014 as well. While one user termed the huge crowd in Kolkata as unbelievable, the other called PM’s rally - known as Jan Chetna Sabha as epic.

UP CM Yogi Adityanath, on October 20, kick-started BJP’s election campaign in Bihar with a public rally in Kaimur district. The visuals of these rallies, however, are very different as seen in the photos posted by news agency ANI on their Twitter handle.

Bihar: UP CM Yogi Adityanath addresses a public rally at Ramgarh in Kaimur district.



"NDA govt is working in Bihar's interest. Bihar is benefiting from govt formed under the leadership of PM Modi. Both Nitish & Modi govt gave free ration & gas to the poor of Bihar," he said. pic.twitter.com/B0AcNEGAcJ— ANI (@ANI) October 20, 2020

Thus, it can be safely concluded that the viral claim is wrong. The image is from PM Modi’s rally in Kolkata held in 2014 and not of a recent election rally of Yogi Adityanath in Bihar.