A picture is being shared on social media with a claim that Supreme Court Judges Surya Kant and J.B. Pardiwala are having lunch with NDTV Founders Prannoy Roy, Radhika Roy and Communist Party of India leader Brinda Karat.

A bench of Justices Surya Kant and J.B. Pardiwala on July 1, 2022, refused to entertain former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Nupur Sharma’s petition to club the multiple FIRs against her for the controversial remarks against Prophet Mohammad. They said that Nupur Sharma’s statements were ‘single-handedly’ responsible for igniting ’emotions in the country’.

The picture is being shared with the caption: “Rinita Mazumdar The 2 SC judges,

#SuryaKant and #Pardiwala with the Naxal gang. U can see…. Pranab Roy is there.

Then there is Radhika Roy. See with whom the Supreme court judges who passed verdict are having lunch with.”

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the post, and found it to be false.

We ran a keyword search and found that the same image was tweeted by N. Ram, Director of The Hindu Publishing Group, calling it a fake post. “How idiotic! The calibre of your disinformation is pathetic, beneath contempt,” he tweeted.

Sharing the false post, he wrote: “How idiotic! Fact: The two persons you identify as Justices Surya Kant and JB Pardiwala of the Supreme Court of India are Tamil Nadu Finance Minister. Dr P Thiaga Rajan (PTR), and me, N Ram. And our lunch was at a restaurant in Ketti near Ooty. The calibre of your disinformation is pathetic, beneath contempt.“

We also found the same image, shared by a social media handle of a community club in Tamil Nadu — MindEscapes, on July 3, 2022. “A Chef’s Table session with Finance Minister – Tamil Nadu, Mr. P. Thiagarajan, Dr. Prannoy Roy and Mrs. Radhika Roy, Mrs. Brinda Karat and Mr. Prakash Karat, Mrs. and Mr. N. Ram and Dipali Sikand. #ExperienceMindEscapes #ChefsTable #Nilgiris #GreatMindsMeet” the tweet reads.

We also checked photos of Justice J.B. Pardiwala and Justice Surya Kant on the Supreme Court website where they look visibly different from the people in the picture.

Hence, it is clear that the post in circulation is false.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news