The fight between the CBI's top two men has become the talk of the town. The Central Bureau of Investigation filed a bribery case against its number two officer, Special Director Rakesh Asthana, on Sunday. Asthana had written to the government listing several charges against his boss, CBI Director Alok Verma. In a strange development on social media, especially on Twitter, posts in support of Asthana started pouring in soon after the incident. However, the sudden surge in tweets with hashtags such as #RakeshAsthanaSupport and #CBIVsCBI created suspicion among other users.

advertisement

Interestingly, most of the tweets circulate an article, 'CBI FIR- The True Story', from a blog called 'Hindu Rashtra'.



India Today Fact Check team found most of these Twitter handles suspicious. After closely monitoring the Twitter profiles and their posts, we found strange coincidences among them. Almost all of them tweeted the same article from the blog - 'Hindu Rashtra - Truth Prevails' - to defend Asthana.

Using domainbigdata.com, we found that this blog site was created only on Sunday. Till the time of filing this report, the blog site had just three posts.

On Sunday, when this blog site was formed, another Twitter handle in the name of Hindu Rashtriya with @HRashtriya also tweeted this same article - 'CBI FIR- The True Story'.

India Today Fact Check team found that almost all Twitter users who have supported Asthana tweeted this same blog on the same day, almost at the same time range.

There are many more Twitter handles such as @Rosy__Here,@neeti_ns, @IamdishaS, @AneeqaRashid_, @TheRITUS,@soniyo_ve, @shalu604 , who had also circulated this blog published by 'Hindu Rashtra'.

Interestingly, all these Twitter handles have a huge number of followers, with some having as high as 60,000 followers. Some of these Twitter users have used photos of film actors and models to disguise their true identities, but all of them have shared each other's posts.

Strangely, a verified user @LincOlnVehiclEs having nearly 90,000 followers, usually tweeting about love, life and relationship, has suddenly tweeted in support of Asthana.

Actor, singer Ali Quli Mirza also posted several tweets in support of the CBI special director.

Both these verified users were criticised for their posts. They were accused of doing a "paid campaign" in support of the senior IPS officer.

When we contacted Mirza, he claimed that his Twitter account had been hacked. The singer, who is currently in London, told India Today TV, "My Twitter account has been hacked by someone from Ahmedabad. I have made several complaints and will follow up when I return to India."

advertisement

India Today contacted Hindu Rashtriya on Twitter for an interview, to which the blogger replied "Truth is all out here! Check tweets".

India Today Fact Check team found that many users tweeting in support of Asthana have questionable authenticity.

Also Read | What lies behind Alok Verma vs Rakesh Asthana fight in CBI, explained in 10 points

Watch | CBI raids CBI, arrests its own officer in bribery case