American Osteopath Dr Carrie Madej recently claimed that she saw an "organism that had tentacles coming from it" in the COVID-19 Moderna vaccine. She also went on to say that she saw graphene in the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.



The interview , hosted by Stew Peters from the Stew Peters Show and titled 'First US Lab Examines 'Vaccine' Vials, HORRIFIC Findings Revealed', was published on September 29, 2021 and has been viewed nearly 2.5 million times on video platform Rumble .

Dr Madej said a lab in Georgia asked her to examine the contents of a Moderna COVID-19 vaccine vial. "They put some of the contents on a glass slide with a compound microscope to look at it. Nothing was added to the solution — nothing was deluded — no human tissue was added — only white light from the microscope," said Madej. She also said that the sample was examined at room temperature.

"At first, the sample looked translucent and then after two hours colours appeared which I haven't seen anything like this — there wasn't a chemical reaction happening. It was brilliant blue, royal purple, yellow and sometimes green. Superconducting material can do that with white light emitted to it," Madej said. "A superconducting material would be something like an injectable computing system," she added, claiming that this was proof that they were putting an operating system inside people.

She went on to claim that she saw fibres and opaque metallic fragments at the edge of the coverslip on the glass slide. "They looked synthetic. There was one particular particle object or organism. I'm not sure what to call it — that had tentacles coming from it — it was able to lift itself off the glass slide," claimed the osteopath.

When Peters asked her if the organism she saw was alive, she replied, "It appeared to be self-aware or able to grow or move in space. I showed this to others in the field and they didn't know what it was either. It almost feels like it's self-aware… it knows we are watching it." It is worth noting that Dr Madej claimed to have examined at least three batches of the Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines.

But microbiologists and epidemiologists FactChecker spoke to say it is plainly a conspiracy theory.

Fact-check

All four experts — a virologist, a biology professor, and two microbiologists — FactChecker spoke to called Madej's experiment flawed. Dr LS Shashidhara, a biology professor at Ashoka University, said it is very common to see parasites if the slides are unclean. "It is common to see harmless protozoan organisms in tap water or ice flakes. The vaccine is supposed to be stored at -20°C and if not stored properly, or if it goes through the freeze-thaw-freeze cycle, the sample is likely to show ice flakes, which the observer may have confused for graphene or some other precipitates again due to poor storage conditions," Shashidhara said.

Similarly, Dr Gagandeep Kang, epidemiologist and Professor of The Wellcome Trust Research Laboratory at Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, said it could be an issue with Madej's microscope and her lab. "I think her laboratory is extremely contaminated, since no manufacturer/regulator would have permitted such contamination. The fact that she says it is three batches underlines that this may be an issue with her microscope and her lab," Kang told FactChecker.

A compound microscope is an ordinary light microscope (called compound because it uses two lenses to magnify images) and it magnifies at 100, 400 and 1000 times. "She [Madej] claims she saw this at 400 times, and that this tentacled organism was self-aware...and then she goes on to talk about 'superconducting' material etc that Bill Gates is putting into people in Africa. Checking on her, she has been a consistent conspiracy theorist since 1999 at least," Kang added.

The experts also highlighted that all vaccines go through rigorous assessments. "Sometimes a vaccine vial may get contaminated after being opened or mishandled in the process but when the vaccines are released it is done after rigorous checking and is produced under Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP )," said Dr Nirmal Kumar Ganguly, microbiologist and former director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "This [Madej's claim] is essentially misinformation," he added.

COVID-19 vaccines go through a multi-stage testing process, including large clinical trials that involve tens of thousands of people. This is further analysed by an external panel of experts, convened by the World Health Organization (WHO) on how to use these vaccines. "These mRNA vaccines have been rigorously assessed for safety, and clinical trials have shown that they provide a long-lasting immune response. mRNA vaccines are not live virus vaccines and do not interfere with human DNA," according to the WHO .

To add more clarity, Moderna vaccine's ingredients include messenger ribonucleic acid or mRNA (the active ingredient), lipids (mRNA carriers), salts such as tromethamine hydrochloride, acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate and sucrose, according to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

No Graphene in COVID-19 Vaccines

In the latter part of the video, Madej said she also analysed a vial of Johnson & Johnson's COVID-19 vaccines which she claimed had "graphene-like structures". Graphene is a material made of carbon atoms that are bonded together in a repeating pattern of hexagons. It is so thin that it is considered two dimensional. Graphene is considered to be the strongest material in the world, as well as one of the most conductive to electricity and heat.

All experts FactChecker spoke to denied the presence of graphene in the vaccine. The ingredients for this vaccine have been publicly listed and do not include graphene oxide, said Dr Sarman Singh, professor and head of Division of Clinical Microbiology & Molecular Medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). "Most of these are artefacts and she herself said it was brought from refrigeration to room temperature after hours. If the temperature is very low, some chemicals become crystallised. When thawed the chemicals can form crystals, which was perhaps what she saw. This is a normal phenomenon. Her claim is laughable," Dr Singh told FactChecker.

Singh added that mostly coverslips and slides are cleaned with a tissue paper and at times with cotton. Additionally latex or rubber gloves are also used. "Usually the best quality coverslips need not be cleaned but it is always advisable to clean it. We do not know if they cleaned the slide with only water or isopropyl alcohol etc. If they used latex gloves then huge latex particles are commonly seen. There has been no counter-questioning. So, all these factors should be included," concluded Singh.

Not Madej's First False Claim

Earlier this year, Dr Madej had also falsely claimed that mRNA vaccines introduce foreign genes to our DNA and that they contain "RNA -modifying transhumanism nanotechnology".

These claims were busted by international fact-checking news websites such as the Poynter Institute and Politifact who proved that mRNA vaccines simply introduce genetic instruction to help the cell synthesize the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein to teach the immune system how to identify and neutralise the virus.