Have you ever seen a man sowing paddy in the middle of a street? Well, this image is being circulated on social media as that of a street in Congress President Rahul Gandhi's constituency Amethi.

India Todays Fact Check team investigated the photo soon after it started doing rounds on the internet.

The message with the image reads 'Kabhi Aao To Amethi' and has been shared more than 5,000 times on various social media platforms.

Viral photo/post of man sowing paddy on road

advertisement

But is this photo actually from Amethi? The answer is a big NO.

The photo has been lifted from a news portal -- Uttarakhand News Network -- in its article dated July 16, 2015.

The website claimed the incident took place in Uttarakhand's Dharchula town. It was a unique protest by the locals against the poor condition of the road.

Tired of mud covered and waterlogged streets, a local resident took the matter in his own hands to mark his protest. He planted paddy saplings on the street in Balvakot of Dharchula.

But India Today Fact Check Team cross-checked the details and confirmed from local authorities that the protest actually took place in Chaukhutia-Masi road in Almora district and not Dharchula as claimed by the news portal.

India Today spoke to a local Pappu Satti who was part of the protest.

We planted paddy saplings on the road as a protest, since there were no proper roads in my locality then. The road which existed had washed away due to rains, to draw attention of the authorities we thought its better to use the path for farming. - Pappu Satti added

Harish Rawat was the chief minister when the Congress government was in power in 2015. After the protests, the roadworks then kicked-off. CM Rawat visited the locality after the work was completed. Villagers even shared with us the images of the under construction road.

Image of under construction road

From our investigation, it is clear that though the image is real, the details of the image have been tampered with. The photo is not from Amethi (Uttar Pradesh) but Almora (Uttarakhand).

If you want us to fact check a viral message, image or video send it to us at viralfact@aajtak.com