Pictures of rescue operations of flood victims in Assam are viral on social media. But there are a few unrelated images which have been passed off as pictures of the Assam flood.

Recently, a picture of a man with a calf on his shoulder wading through knee-deep water has gone viral, linking it to the Assam floods.

"Humanity. Pray for Assam" is the caption written in English on the viral image posted on Facebook by user, "Are bhai bhai bhai".

advertisement

The archived version of the post is here.

The picture was posted on Facebook on July 19, 2019 and has been shared by more than 4,000 users till the time of writing this article.

India Today Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim.

The viral image is not from Assam. The viral image has been widely used by news media in Bangladesh recently to report on the flood in the neighbouring country.

Several other Facebook pages like "Namo Bharath - Narendra Modi For PM" and "Bakchod page" also posted the same content on July 19, 2019.

Simple reverse image search on the viral picture throws up several Bangladeshi news portals which have carried this image in their stories related to flood in that particular region.

Dhaka Times used this picture in their article published on July 18, 2019 regarding the flood situation of Gaibandha area in Northern Bangladesh.

Other Bangladeshi websites like Bangladesh Journal and PBA also used the same picture recently in their stories on Bangladesh flood. But none of them has mentioned the exact location of the picture.

AFWA has not found this viral picture in any credible mainstream media website in India which are reporting on Assam flood situation, other than the social media platforms.

We have contacted news websites of Bangladesh who have carried this picture to know the exact location from where the photograph was taken. We will update our article as soon as we get any response from these websites.

It has been reported widely on mainstream and social media that many people have braved flood water to rescue trapped animals in Assam, but this particular viral image of a man rescuing a calf by carrying it on his shoulder is not from Assam.