The third and the final phase of the Assembly election in Bihar is scheduled to take place on November 7. Amid this, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee's social media handles have shared an eight-second video of a small boy pushing a stretcher, with a claim that the distressing scene is from a hospital in Bihar.

The caption of the video which is in Hindi translates as, "This video shaming humanity shows the ruthlessness of the BJP-JDU government in Bihar. After winning the election with the precious vote of the public, they leave people to die in hospitals."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. The video is from Deoria district hospital in Uttar Pradesh. The ward boy of the hospital's surgical ward was removed after this video went viral in July 2020.

Congress also shared the same video on INC Bihar's official Facebook page.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA PROBE

With the help of the Invid tool and appropriate keywords, we found that the viral video is from Uttar Pradesh and not Bihar.

We found that the same video was uploaded on the YouTube channel of Aaj Tak on July 20, 2020. The title of the video reads, "UP: Ignored for not giving bribe! VIDEO of child pushing stretcher in hospital goes viral".

According to the report, the incident took place in the Deoria district of Uttar Pradesh. A minor was helping his mother push a stretcher to take his grandfather, who suffered from multiple fractures to different wards.

Mirror Now, Amar Ujala, The Lallantop and Live Hindustan also uploaded the same video on their official YouTube channel.

We also found reports by India Today and The Times of India confirming that the incident took place in Uttar Pradesh. The reports said the mother and her six-year-old son had to push the stretcher themselves as they couldn't pay the ward boy who was demanding Rs 30 for each trip of the service.

According to the India Today report, after the video went viral, Deoria District Magistrate Amit Kishore visited the hospital and confirmed to media that the video is from Deoria district hospital. He also said that the ward boy who denied help to the family is removed from the ward. The District Magistrate also said a probe has been ordered in the matter.

Here is the video of the Deoria District Magistrate addressing the media -

We also found that Keshav Chand Yadav, former National President of Indian Youth Congress had also shared the viral video on July 20 on his verified Twitter handle as being from Uttar Pradesh.

Thus it is clear that the video showing a six-year-old boy pushing a stretcher along with his mother is from Uttar Pradesh's Deoria district hospital and not from Bihar.