An image of a group of men stamping on and burning Indian, Israeli and United States flags is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows Palestinians insulting the Tricolour. Posts accompanying the picture rue the fact that many in India still support the Palestinian cause.

One such tweet along with the image says, "Radical Palestinians burning #Indian flag, but still many peacefool #Indian supporting #Palestine just in the name of religion."

advertisement

Another image of a different set of men standing on the three flags is being shared with the same claim in Malayali. The pictures are being shared at a time intense fighting has broken out between Israel and Palestine.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the images to be misleading. These pictures are from protests held in support of Palestine in Karachi, Pakistan.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Let us fact-check the two images separately.

Image 1

Using reverse image search, we found the same picture on the website of international news agency Associated Press. According to the caption, the picture shows members of a civil society group burning Indian, Israeli and US flags during a demonstration in support of Palestinians in Karachi on May 11, 2021.

We also found the same image shared by multiple news websites as from Karachi.

As per reports, on May 11, hours after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan denounced Israel's use of force against the Palestinians, different political and religious organisations in Pakistan held a demonstration in support of Palestine in front of Karachi Press Club. The Palestine Foundation Pakistan, an organisation formed by former students of Karachi University, also joined the protest.

We also searched for Karachi Press Club on Google Maps and were able to geo-locate the same place seen in the viral image. A comparison between the image in question and the Google street view can be seen below.

Image 2

We found a clearer version of the second picture shared along with a set of 90 images by a Facebook page from Pakistan on May 7, 2021.

According to the post in Urdu, the images are from a rally held in solidarity with Palestine as part of World Al-Quds Day (Jerusalem Day) in Karachi. We also found other reports confirming solidarity rallies held in Pakistan on May 7.

In the clearer version of the picture, we can also see a shop with "Pakistan Auto Centre" written on the board behind the rallyists.

Searching for this shop, we got a street view of the same location on Google Maps.

A comparison between the clearer version of the image found on Facebook and the Google street view can be seen below.

Hence, it is clear that the images in question are from Karachi in Pakistan and not Palestine. AFWA has fact-checked several social media posts surrounding the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict. A Twitter thread to these stories can be seen here.