Spread the truth:

Activist Yogita Bhayana Tweeted a news clip claiming a Swiss Squash Player cancelled her trip to India over her concerns for Women safety in India after coming across various news articles on internet.

The article was about top Switzerland player Ambre Allinckx pulled out of an ongoing World Junior Squash Championship in Chennai over safety concerns.

She is an Activist against rape in India. Founder of PARI (Prevention of Rape in India) and her tweet was Retweeted by more than 3.5K people and liked by 10K+ people

Along with the image, she wrote “Thanks for making us Global power @narendramodi“

Thanks for making us Global power 🙏 @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/SsGPFzGR68 — Yogita Bhayana (@yogitabhayana) October 9, 2020



archive

The same image was viral two years ago too –

Truth

The News is two year old and the parents of the player denied the viral News

The viral article was published in Navbharat Times, Chennai. The same news was published in many other media houses too, denied later.

In the above Facebook posts and tweets, you can see those are photos taken of a printed News Paper, by different people, different lighting.

You can also notice एनबीटी , चेन्ने written in the beginning of the article

Zee News included the Navbharat Times clip in their article

Jansatta

But immediately the reason of concern for lack of safety for women in India was denied by Parents of the Player.

Navbharat Times seems to have deleted their earlier article from their website and published another another one claiming the first was false.

Navbharat Times –

The Tribune reported –

“The parents of Switzerland’s squash player Ambre Allinckx, who reportedly pulled out from the ongoing WSF-World Junior Squash Championship here owing to safety concerns, have said “they were never concerned about safety in India”. The Swiss girl came under fire after a media report claimed that she had pulled out of the tournament owing to safety concerns in India.

According to a press release sent by the Squash Rackets Federation of India (SRFI), Ambre’s parents, Igor and Valerie, told a leading squash website that “we, as parent, never were concerned about safety in India. This is a lie or a journalist invention”. “We wanted to have summer holidays as a family and due to the father’s (Igor) work, this has to take place in July. So nothing in our decision was about safety. Ambre has already travelled to Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia, Poland, France, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy, Mexico etc and we never considered India as a place more dangerous than these. Again, this is speculation, or invention,” they wrote.

The parents said they would be delighted to visit India on another occasion. “We would be delighted to visit India at another occasion. But right now she is shocked that so many people show hate to her. Please stop this!”

Earlier, the World Squash Federation CEO Andrew Shelley had said that he had complete confidence in the security arrangements made by Tamil Nadu Squash Rackets Association to ensure the safety of the players at this event. —PTI”

Outlook

TimesNow in their article quoted a Swiss Squash website

“we, as parent, never were concerned about safety in India. This is a lie or a journalist invention,” Ambre’s parents Igor and Valerie wrote in a message to squashsite.co.uk.

A Swiss website squashsite.co.uk quoted by many credible Indian media houses, as a press alert, gave out link to The Scroll

PressAlert, India/Swiss Affair: The Parents of the Swiss Number 1 put the record straight…https://t.co/uqvzpLe6rT@WSFworldjuniors — Squash Site (@SquashSite) July 22, 2018

The Scroll article

‘Never concerned about safety in India’: Swiss player’s parents on junior squash meet snub

Her parents said in a statement that they had taken the call in September last year as their daughter was still young and they wanted to take a vacation.

Following reports of top Switzerland player Ambre Allinckx’s decision of pulling out of the ongoing World Junior Squash Championship in Chennai over safety concerns, the parents of the 16-year-old have clarified that this was not the case and she opted out of the event to take a vacation with the family.

Media reports had suggested that Ambre’s parents did not allow the top ranked Swiss junior to travel to Chennai following reports of how the country was unsafe for women.

The message from the parents reads as follows:

Ambre is right now mobbed in social medias. Actually, we, as parent, NEVER were concerned about safety in India. This is a lie or a journalist invention. We decided already in September last year not to send Ambre to this year Junior World Championship for two reasons. 1/ She is still young as she became 16 in March. She played the European U17 Team this year and will play World Junior the next 2 years. Last year at the season end she was very tired so we didn’t want to physically over charge her. 2/ We wanted, for possibly the last time for the coming years, to have summer holidays as a family and due to the father, Igor, work this has to take place in July. So nothing in our decision was about safety.

— Igor and Valerie Allinckx statement released by SRFI

Related