Voter disaffection is common in democracies. But whats rare is voter rebellion that turns violent against elected leaders.

A video circulated on social media has caught 60,000 views since July 13 because it showed a rarity -- crowds chasing away a man purportedly identified as a BJP neta in Rajasthan.

The message read that a party lawmaker from Rajasthans Dausa is filmed being attacked by residents.

advertisement

Rajasthan Dausa Ke BJP Vidhayak Shankar Lal Sharma Per Janta Ne Kiya Hath Saaf Dauda Dauda Ker Peeta! Lagta Hai Ache Din Shuru Ho Gaye Hai, said the attention-seeking caption. The footage drew more than 2,000 likes and 2,300 shares in three days.

When India Today verified the clip, the catch mischievously hidden in the video came to the surface. The elderly neta in white kurta pyjamas pursued by angry men was not a sitting MLA of the BJP from Dausa but a former legislator belonging to the Congress party in Gangapur.

I have seen this video going viral in my name since April. The man in the video is not me, Dausas BJP MLA Shankar Lal Sharma told the Viral Test team when it probed about the footage that had him on its caption. My party workers have lodged a protest with the district collector in this regard.

So, if the man being chased and beaten is not the BJPs MLA from Dausa, who is he then?

Some of my workers have told me that this is from Gangapur city in Sawai Madhopur district. I am not sure though, he hinted. Sharmas tip was useful.

Our investigations showed the leader-beating video was recorded at Gangapur in Sawai Madhopur during a Bharat Bandh called by the Dalit groups in early April. The strike was held in protest against the Supreme Court's ruling over the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989.

Our Viral Test found out the real identity of the politician who was chased away by protestors. He was former Congress MLA Ramkesh Meena from Gangapur and not the BJPs Dausa legislator, Sharma, as the original caption claimed. The attack was recorded by some onlookers.

Meena won the Gangapur seat in 2009 on a BSP ticket. He eventually joined the Congress and was made parliamentary secretary in the Ashok Gehlot government. When contacted about the April incident, he refused to comment.

But research of news archives and web portals suggested Meena indeed was attacked during the Bharat Bandh. The violence that day led authorities to impose a curfew on Gangapur city and shut down internet services.