A quote attributed to veteran Bollywood actress Shabana Azmi is doing the rounds on social media, challenging certain practices prevalent in society and calling for women empowerment.

The quote reads, Main iss Navratri par Allah se dua karti hu ki Lakshmi ko bheek na mangna pade, Durga ki bhroon hatya na ho, Parvati ko dahej na dene pade, Saraswati bina school ke anpad na rahe aur kaali ko Fair and Lovely ki zarurat na pade! Insha Allah! (This Navratri, I pray to Allah that no Lakshmi should have to beg, no Durga should be aborted, Parvati wouldn’t have to give dowry, Saraswati shouldn’t be illiterate and Kali shouldn’t need Fair and Lovely! Insha Allah!)

advertisement

The post also poses a question to Shabana that reads, Kya ye teen talaq, char biwiya, burqa, halala, jansankhya niyantran par bolegi? (Will she talk about triple talaq, polygamy, burqa, halala and population control?)

Reacting to this, Shabana on Tuesday tweeted that the quote is falsely attributed to her and she works for all women irrespective of their religion.

I have NEVER said this . It is DISGUSTING what trolls will stoop to polarise and communalise an already charged atmosphere. I work for all women irrespective of their religion. pic.twitter.com/ACqn5vx3dU Azmi Shabana (@AzmiShabana) April 9, 2019





India Today’s Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that during Navratri in 2017, Shabana Azmi did make a similar remark. This has been pointed out by many in the comment section of her tweet.





The original tweet of Shabana is in English that reads, This Durga Asthami, let’s pray that no Durga is aborted, no Saraswati is stopped from going to school, no Lakshmi has to beg for money from her husband, no Parvati is sacrificed for dowry and no Kali is given a tube of fairness cream!!!

The viral quote is the translation of Shabana’s original tweet, but with some changes. Shabana’s tweet says that no Lakshmi should beg for money from her husband, but in the translation, the context of husband’ is missing. Words such as Insha Allah have also been added to the viral post.

India Today reached out to Shabana Azmi regarding this matter. Shabana told us that she is flying to Edinburg, Scotland and asked us to read the story of Boomlive on the same matter. The story says that text in Shabana's tweet may not be her own words because the same text had been posted by some other netizens also.