Amidst rising inflation, a post on social media is becoming increasingly viral. In which it was claimed that the central government has decided to give an amount of Rs 30,628 to every citizen of India to overcome this crisis of inflation. Also a link is given. By clicking on which people can make their application.

One user wrote on Facebook, “After the price jump, the government decided to give an amount of (Rs 30,628) to the Indian people for every citizen who fulfills the conditions as an aid to the poor class to overcome the crisis. Enter and register now and make sure to register correctly.”

Fact Check

To check this claim that is going viral, we looked at the list of schemes of the government. There we did not get information about any such scheme. At the same time, the plan of the Ministry of Finance has been told in the viral news. We went to the website of the Ministry of Finance but there too we didn’t get anything regarding the scheme.

At the same time, on knowing more about this scheme, we got a tweet from Press Information Bureau (PIB). In the tweet, he clarified that the viral message is fake.

A message with a link 'https://t.co/sn2GmrJgW9' is doing the rounds on social media and is claiming to offer a financial aid of ₹30,628 in the name of the Ministry of Finance to every citizen.#PIBFactCheck ▶️ This message is FAKE ▶️ No such aid is announced by @FinMinIndia pic.twitter.com/DkbssCM7Ic — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) May 23, 2022

The tweet read, “A message is doing the rounds on social media with the link ‘https://bit.ly/3P7CiPY’ and claiming to give financial assistance of Rs 30,628 to every citizen in the name of Ministry of Finance. #PIBFactCheck… This message is FAKE… No such assistance has been announced by @FinMinIndia”

Conclusion

Therefore, it is clear that the claim of giving financial assistance of Rs 30,628 to every citizen from the central government is fake.

Claim: To deal with rising inflation, the central government is going to provide financial assistance of Rs 30,628 to every citizen.

Claimant: Facebook user.

Fact Check: Fake