The United Arab Emirates (UAE) bans the export of wheat imported from India for 4 months. After this, people are giving their reactions on social media. Many believe that the UAE has banned importing wheat from India, while many people have attributed the UAE’s decision to the controversial statement of former BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma on Prophet Mohammed.

Many other users have cited that apart from the controversial remarks on Prophet Mohammed, the reason behind this decision of the UAE was beating Indian Muslims and running bulldozers on their homes. South Asian Journal had claimed on its Twitter account that after the controversial remark of Nupur Sharma on Prophet Mohammed, the UAE has banned the export of wheat from India. They captioned an article in Khaleej Times – “UAE bans export of Indian wheat. Comes after Prophet Mohammad insulted and Muslims beaten and homes demolished in India.”

https://twitter.com/sajournal1/status/1536978681540640768/

Soon the tweet went viral with more than a hundred retweets.

Also Read

Fact Check

We did a simple search on Google for the viral claim. We found a report published on the website of ‘ Aaj Tak ‘. It is clearly mentioned in this report that the UAE has banned the export of wheat or flour purchased from India to other countries for 4 months. It has also been written that the UAE has taken this decision only at the request of the Government of India. Because India wants the wheat exported by it to UAE to be used for its domestic consumption.

Further, when we looked at the Khaleej Times report, it was mentioned that The Ministry of Economy explained that this decision comes in view of the international developments that have affected trade flows and in appreciation of the solid and strategic relations that bind the UAE and India, especially after the signing of the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (Cepa) between the two countries and the Indian government’s approval to export wheat to the UAE for domestic consumption.

Conclusion

so it is clear that the claim made by the South Asian Journal is misleading. In this fact check many misleading things are coming out, which are as follows.

UAE has not imposed restrictions on importing wheat from India.

The UAE has banned the export of wheat or flour imported from India to any other country.

At present, this ban has been imposed for only 4 months.

The UAE has taken this decision on the request of the Government of India.

The UAE’s ban on Indian wheat exports has nothing to do with the controversial statement of a BJP spokesperson on the Prophet Mohammed in India.