Amid the ongoing tension between India and Pakistan, social media on both sides have become hyperactive. Pakistani media and its netizens have now claimed that Air Marshal Chandrashekharan Hari Kumar was sacked after the Indian Air Force lost several of its fighter aircraft to Pakistan in the recent standoff.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Air Marshal Kumar was not fired but he retired on February 28, 2019 after an illustrious career spanning over 39 years. His last stint was as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Western Air Command for about two years, and he is now succeeded by Air Marshal Raghunath Nambiar.

advertisement

The false claim about his job was shared by many news portals and Twitterati from Pakistan.

Air Marshal Chandrashekharan Hari Kumar, Commander of indian airforce's western Air command has been 'replaced'. This was the IAF arm involved in botched Balakot attack and combat with Pakistan airforce (PAF) the day after in which it lost two Jets. pic.twitter.com/16SEtNW75Q Asfandyar Bhittani (@BhittaniKhannnn) March 1, 2019





The fake claim is viral on Facebook as well.

However, tweets from the official twitter handles of the IAF and Press Information Bureau make it evidently clear that Air Marshal Kumar retired on February 28 this year after serving 39 years in the Indian Air Force.

Air Marshal Chandrashekharan Hari Kumar, AOC-in-C, Western Air Command IAF retired on 28 Feb 2019 after an illustrious career spanning over 39 yrs. The Air Marshal was commissioned in the Flying Branch of Indian Air Force in the year 1979.

Details on https://t.co/okJbv3h7IU pic.twitter.com/seHpDaLOZi Indian Air Force (@IAF_MCC) March 1, 2019





Air Marshal C Hari Kumar PVSM AVSM VM VSM ADC Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, WAC IAF Retires.



He was awarded ParamVishishtSeva Medal, AtiVishishtSeva Medal, Vayu Sena Medal, VishishtSeva Medal and appointed Honorary Air Force ADC to President of India.https://t.co/ZcggHUDNux pic.twitter.com/MYlRyW42Ed PIB India (@PIB_India) March 1, 2019





Full press release can be read here.

Kumar has been awarded the Param Vishisht Seva Medal (2018), the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (2016), the Vishisht Seva Medal (2015) and the Vayu Sena Medal (2011). He was also appointed as Honorary Air Force ADC to President of India on January 1, 2017.