A TikTok video has gone viral with the claim that the man reading Quran in a mosque is football star Cristiano Ronaldo.

Multiple Facebook users have shared this viral video, which has been viewed over a million times. The caption on the Facebook post reads, “Cristiano Ronaldo Reciting Quran.”

The archived version of the Facebook post can be seen here.

advertisement

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the man in the video is Bewar Abdullah, a Ronaldo lookalike who had posted his video on TikTok reading the Quran.

Abdullah, originally from Iraq, lives in Birmingham, England. Abdullah got global recognition for his striking resemblance to the Portuguese footballer.

Ronaldo lookalike

Several people have commented on the viral post, raising suspicion that the man in the video is not Ronaldo but his doppelgänger. TikTok videos have a feature where the name or the account name of the content-creator is featured at the end. We found that the name at the end of the viral video is mentioned as “@bewarabdullah”.

Taking a cue from there, we found the viral video on Bewar Abdullah's profile. The caption on the video reads, “Hello Al Kafirun - Ahmed Al Ajamy”. Indian readers might not be able to open this TikTok link due to the government restrictions on the social media app.

With the help of keyword search, we have found several international reports about Ronaldo’s lookalike and the viral video.

Bewar Abdullah, as per his Facebook profile, lives in Birmingham, UK. According to the news reports, Abdullah left Iraq and arrived in the UK in 2019, and worked there as a construction worker.

He was already popular in Iraq and also attracted attention in England due to his striking resemblance with the Juventus footballer. Abdullah, who himself plays football, follows Ronaldo’s hairstyle and dressing style keenly.

In his interview to The Sun, Abdullah said, “I do play football, I play in the same position as him and I wear the number seven shirt — just as he does. My dream is to one day meet him.”

Hence, it can be concluded that the man in the viral video reading Quran is not Cristiano Ronaldo but Bewar Abdullah, an Iraqi immigrant living in the UK.