On 13th August 2019 a facebook page named Hailey TV posted a video. It’s caption was “the last Dogra ruler in Jammu & Kashmir, the granddaughter of Maharaja Hari Singh. In the video, we can see a women talking about Kashmir. This video is being shared on the social media and it is being claimed that this woman is the granddaughter of Maharaja Hari Singh, the last ruler of Jammu & Kashmir state.

The woman seen in the video, described by the social media user as Hari Singh’s granddaughter is seen talking about the Instrument of Accession given by the then princely state of Jammu and Kashmir in India.

Let us tell you that the NDA government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently scrapped Article 370 wherein Jammu & Kashmir was given a special state status. By the time the facts were checked, this report had received 2500 responses.

Facebook Post Archive Link

We conducted a yandix reverse image search using the Invid tools of a few key frames from the video and as a result we found a video in the sevenwap.net website. This video was uploaded on 11th July 2017 and its caption was “Kashmir Issue: Prof. Hameeda Nayeem speaking at AMU”.

Archive Link

At around 14 minutes in the video, the AMUSU members can be seen. The AMUSU president Maskoor Ahmad Usmani also shared the pictures related to this conference on his Facebook page.

Archive Link

We also searched this video in AMUSU’s channel on YouTube, as a result of which we found this video on AMUSUII’s channel on 23rd June 2014. The professor gave a speech in the conference organized by Aligarh Muslim University Student Union in 2014.

On Google’s search, we found the Linked in account of Hameeda Nayeem and according to this account, she is a professor at the Kashmir University.

This video was uploaded on Kashmiriat Vlog on 31st October 2017. In the description it was mentioned Hameeda Nayeem Professor in Kashmir University and Social Worker, addressing the students of Aligarh University.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=743fZ8pWIQo&feature=youtu.be

Through Google search we came to know that Dr. Jyotsna Singh is the granddaughter of the last ruler of Jammu & Kashmir. We found a picture of Dr. Jyotsna Singh in the website of Indian Rajputs

After this, we found a tweet by the Maharaja’s grandson and one of the leader’s of the Indian National Congress, Vikramaditya Singh, through which he denied these claims made on social media

In this tweet he mentioned that “My sister is Dr. Jyotsna Singh granddaughter of Maharaja Hari Singh Ji of Jammu & Kashmir. It is not her. Please ignore this fake and malicious video.”

Grand daughter of Maharaja Hari Singh Ji of Jammu & Kashmir is my sister, Dr. Jyotsna Singh. This is NOT her. Kindly ignore this fake/ malicious video. @DAkkhar @VoiceofDogras https://t.co/11pHWLLFsA — Vikramaditya Singh (@vikramaditya_JK) August 13, 2019

Archive Link

Conclusion: After examining the video, we found the above post to be incorrect. The woman depicted in the video is not the granddaughter of Maharaja Hari Singh, but her name is Hameeda Nayeem and she is a professor at the University of Kashmir.