The sensational gold smuggling case in Kerala, involving former consulate employees, has heated up politics in the state. But is it true that key accused Swapna Suresh is actually a Muslim who has changed her name to a Hindu one to conceal her real identity?

Such is the claim being made by several social media users. The claim started circulating after a few Malayalam channels released purported call records alleging a link between Swapna and a Muslim minister in CM Pinarayi Vijayan's cabinet.

advertisement

Twitter user "Indu Makkal Katch ( Official )" posted, "Why the media calling her Swapna Suresh instead of her real name - Mumtaz Ismail ? Kerala Model."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral claim is false. Neither the National Investigation Agency (NIA) which has taken over the case nor customs that made the gold seizure said Swapna's real name is Mumtaz Ismail and she's a Muslim.

The archived versions of the viral posts can be seen here and here.



AFWA probe

Swapna, a former UAE consulate employee, is accused of using diplomatic channels to smuggle in 30 kg gold worth Rs 15 crore. The opposition has alleged that Swapna has links to CM Vijayan's office.

On July 10, the NIA registered an FIR against Swapna and two other accused to probe if the case is linked to terror activities. Using keywords, we searched for news reports on NIA's statements regarding the case. We did not find any credible news report saying Swapna is a Muslim.

According to news reports, the FIR has no mention of "Mumtaz Ismail". Instead, the key accused was referred to as "Swapna Suresh".

More recently, some local channels released "call records" alleging a link between Swapna and state higher education minister KT Jaleel. We also searched for media reports on the conversation. However, no report has referred her to "Mumtaz Ismail".

AFWA has not independently examined the veracity of the call records.

We also checked NIA's official website and Twitter handle for the latest updates on the case. However, there were no details to support the viral claim that Swapna is a Muslim.

Swapna is currently under NIA custody. The new allegation over her name has only brought a communal spin to the case. There is no proof that Swapna is a Muslim or her real name is Mumtaz Ismail.