Ahead of the high-voltage elections in Uttar Pradesh, an image is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows Brahmins in UP’s Deoria burning BJP flags and declaring not to vote for the party.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the image to be untrue. This is a 2018 image from Rajasthan which shows supporters of rebel BJP leader Hansraj Patel burning the party flag after he was denied a ticket in the state assembly elections.

advertisement

Using keyword search, we found a similar claim posted on Twitter by Congress leader Acharya Pramod in July 2020. However, in response to the tweet, a user had posted a screenshot of an article from November 2018 by “Dainik Bhaskar” that carried the same image.

According to the “Dainik Bhaskar” report, the image is from Kotputli in Rajasthan and it shows supporters of local politician Hansraj Patel burning flags and an effigy of BJP after he was denied a seat in the state assembly elections.

BJP had declared Mukesh Goyal its candidate for Kotputli seat near Jaipur. Hansraj had also filed his nomination as an Independent candidate in protest.

The incident was also tweeted by “Zee Rajasthan”.

We also found videos of the protest carried by multiple local YouTube channels in November 2018.

A comparison between the image in question and a video from the 2018 protest in Kotputli can be seen below.

India Today’s Kotputli correspondent Vikrant Sharma also confirmed to us that the protest was over party ticket, and the image in question was clicked in front of Hansraj’s office on the Delhi-Jaipur NH48.

We also reached out to India Today’s Deoria bureau in UP. Our correspondent confirmed that no such incident of Brahmins burning the BJP flag was reported in the district recently.

In 2019, the same image was circulated as from Bihar, and subsequently fact-checked.

Hence, it is clear that the image in question shows supporters of a rebel BJP leader in Rajasthan protesting in 2018 after the party denied him a ticket in the state assembly elections at the time.