As coronavirus cases continue to soar worldwide, a message circulating on social media claims the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC), the highest public health institute in the United States, has removed “Covid-19 pandemic” from its website and replaced it with “Covid-19 outbreak”.

The viral message goes on to say that Covid-19 “was never a pandemic”.

Several Facebook users have posted a message reading: The CDC has removed the “Covid-19 Pandemic” and replaced it with “Covid-19 Outbreak” on their website. It was never a pandemic.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that CDC still mentions “Covid-19 pandemic” on its website. Even the World Health Organization (WHO) has categorised Covid-19 as a pandemic.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here (http://archive.today/WCjeP).

What CDC says

Unlike the viral claim, we found that the CDC website still uses the word “pandemic” for Covid-19.

In several write-ups and also in its latest travel advisory, CDC refers to Covid-19 as a pandemic.

However, it has also used the term “outbreak” several times on its website since February. But neither CDC nor WHO has ever said that Covid-19 is not a pandemic.

Outbreak, epidemic and pandemic

The definition of “outbreak” is “a higher-­than-expected number of occurrences of disease in a specific location and time”.

CDC, on its website, explains how Covid-19 is classified as a “pandemic”. It says, “An outbreak is called an epidemic when there is a sudden increase in cases. As Covid-19 began spreading in Wuhan, China, it became an epidemic. Because the disease then spread across several countries and affected a large number of people, it was classified as a pandemic.”

Around March this year, the WHO had declared that Covid-19 is a pandemic and it still recognises(https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019) it as one.

Hence, it is confirmed that CDC has not replaced “Covid-19 pandemic” with “Covid-19 outbreak” on its website.