As Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leaders of the United States, Japan and Australia attended the Quad Summit in Tokyo, Japan, a video went viral on social media allegedly showing US President Joe Biden ignoring the Indian PM and instead, greeting newly elected Australian PM Anthony Albanese.

In the 14-second-long clip, Biden could be seen welcoming and exchanging words with the new Australian PM. However, he appeared not to extend the same courtesy to Modi who was on the stage with them.

advertisement

Many sharing the video claimed Biden insulted the Indian PM at the Quad Summit.

Archived versions of some similar clips can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this video alongside the claim misleading. The original longer video showed Biden greeting Modi as well.

AFWA Probe

When we searched for videos of Biden meeting Modi and Albanese at the Quad Summit, we came across multiple extended videos from the event. One of them was uploaded to the YouTube channel of Aaj Tak on May 24.

In the video, Biden could be seen talking, laughing, and shaking hands with Narendra Modi after he was done talking with Albanese.

Fumio Kishida, the Prime Minister of Japan, was seen in that video, as all four of them posed for a photo session. While this video was shot from a different angle, it appeared to be from the same event, capturing the same scene.

Further searches led us to a video of the event shared on Twitter by Naveen Razik, a journalist with Australia’s SBS News. The video was the same from which the viral video was clipped. And this longer video too showed Biden interacting with Modi, and subsequently, all four leaders posing for photographs.

Prime Minister Anthony Albanese shakes hands with US President Joe Biden and appears to crack a few jokes as the leaders of the Quad pose for the 'family photo' in Tokyo #auspol @SBSNews pic.twitter.com/jS326e746S — Naveen Razik (@naveenjrazik) May 24, 2022

In his opening remarks at the summit, PM Modi said, “Our confidence and determination are strengthening the democratic forces. Our cooperation at the level of Quad is aimed at an inclusive Indo-Pacific region. We increased cooperation during Covid-19 regarding vaccine delivery, climate action, supply chain resilience, disaster response.”

Thus, we concluded that Modi was not snubbed by Biden as was claimed in the viral video, which was trimmed out of context.