On September 13, Bhupendra Patel, BJP MLA from Ghatlodia, took oath as the chief minister of Gujarat after Vijay Rupani resigned from the post. Amid these political developments, a photo that shows a police officer thrashing some men in public is viral on social media.

It claims that as soon as Bhupendra Patel formed the government in the state, the police have become proactive in catching criminals.

advertisement

One such post uploaded on Facebook can be seen below.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the image is misleading. The image is from a 2018 incident that took place in Gujarat’s Bhavnagar.

The archived version of a similar post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

In the photo, we can see the logo of ‘Metro India News’ on the top right corner. The text accompanying the photo says, “Bhavnagar ke kukhyat don ko police ne khoob dhoya (Police brutally thrashed the notorious don of Bhavnagar)”.

Taking a cue from all this, we did a keyword search on YouTube and found the original video. The photo in question is a screenshot taken from the same video which was uploaded on the YouTube channel ‘Metro India News’ on September 8, 2018.

In this video, the officer can be seen thrashing three men who are tied to a rope. As the video proceeds, we can see the three men were made to sit on the road, still tied to the rope.

After searching about the incident in Gujarati, we found that the same video was carried by multiple news organisations in September 2018.

According to these reports, the video shows police inspector Deepak Mishra of Bhavnagar’s crime branch thrashing and parading gangsters Shailesh Dhandhalya, Mukesh Shiyal, and Bhadresh Goswami through the streets of Talaja in Bhatnagar.

A video report on the incident, published by News18 Gujarati on September 1, 2018, can be seen below.

According to a report by The Times of India, the three were arrested from Ahmedabad in connection with an attempted murder case registered at Talaja town. The Bhavnagar police paraded them after Talaja court remanded the three for two days.

It is hence clear that the image in question is from an incident that happened in Gujarat almost three years ago. It is not related to the recent political developments in the state.