A disturbing CCTV footage of a group of men dragging a man out of his car and stabbing him to death is circulating on social media with the claim that it shows RSS workers from Nagpur murdering a Dalit IAS officer. The claim further says the men later gang raped the officer’s minor daughter inside the car.

The caption in Malayalam along with the video translates to, “In Nagpur, RSS activists hack and stab a Dalit IAS officer to death. Horror scenes of his 16-year-old daughter being gang raped in the car.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. The video is of a gambling den kingpin being stabbed to death by rivals in Maharashtra’s Nagpur city.

The claim is viral on Facebook in Malayalam. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

Using InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found the same clip in a video story uploaded on YouTube by “The Lallantop” on September 27, 2020.

The video description says, “Kishor Binekar alias Balya, a suspected gambling den kingpin, was allegedly stabbed to death by five unidentified persons at a petrol pump signal. Police said Binekar, also having several offences against him, was followed by the assailants on bikes. His car was blocked by one of the assailants. Binekar was dragged out and stabbed outside the car in full public view. Here is the video!”

We also found reports on the incident by “The Times of India” and “Outlook”, confirming that the victim was a gambling den kingpin.

There are also reports on Nagpur Crime Branch arresting the accused in the case.

However, there is no mention of gang rape in any of the report.

For better clarity, we reached out to the office of Nagpur Zonal DCP Vanita Sahu. The office confirmed to us that the incident took place on September 26 and the man murdered was a gambling den kingpin. It also said there was no rape associated with the incident.

AFWA also spoke to sub-inspector JN Rajput from Sitabuldi police station, under whose jurisdiction the incident took place.

“Both the victim and accused have criminal backgrounds. Also, the victim was driving the car alone. There was no woman with him. The murderers entered the car in an attempt to hijack it. But they couldn’t. All the accused have been arrested. More than 15 years back, Kishor had killed the father of the main accused, Chetan. The murder was an act of planned revenge by Chetan and his friends. Further investigation is on,” the officer said.

Hence, it is clear that the man being stabbed to death in the viral video is not a Dalit IAS officer but a gambling den kingpin from Nagpur.