In retaliation to the US airstrike that killed General Qasem Soleimani in Baghdad, Iran on Wednesday carried out a ballistic missile attack on airbases housing US forces in Iraq.

Iranian state TV claimed at least 80 American "terrorists" were killed in the attack. However, US President Donald Trump said "all is well" and that no Americans were harmed in the attack by the Iranian regime.

advertisement

Amid the ongoing tension, a set of photos is doing the rounds on social media, showing military personnel with coffins, draped with the US national flag. The claim with the photo says Iran has taken the revenge of the killing of General Soleimani. The post gives the impression that these are the coffins of American soldiers who were allegedly killed in the Iranian missile attack.

The claim with the photo reads: "Iran ne General Soleimani ka badla le liya, dharam dekhkar support karne vale bhakt sadme me hain, jo kal Soleimani ke maut par khushiya mana rahe the." (Iran has avenged the killing of General Soleimani. Religion-biased supporters, who were celebrating Soleimani's death, are in shock.)

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral post to be misleading. The photos showing US flag-draped coffins are years old and have no relation with the recent attack by Iran on US forces in Iraq.

The misleading post is getting viral on both Facebook and WhatsApp.

With the help of reverse search, we found this photo on the websites of several international media houses. An article of BBC, published in 2005, captioned this image as: "a request revealed pictures of US soldiers' coffins returning from Iraq". This proves that the picture is at least 15 years old.

According to a New York Times article, this undated photo shows American military personnel with coffins of soldiers killed in Iraq at Dover Air Base in Delaware. In the article, the credit for this image is given to AFP.

Upon searching on the Internet, we found this picture in a news article of Pakistani news website Nation.com.pk. The article was published on June 26, 2011, which again proves the picture is quite old and has nothing to do with the ongoing tension between Iran and the US.

We also found the uncropped version of this picture in a news article published in 2014.

India Today couldn't find when and where exactly this photo was taken but it is clear from the above reports that this picture wes clicked years back.