Gold prices have recently reached a record high, touching the whopping Rs 40,000 mark in the country.

This has adversely affected the sale of the yellow metal.

But does this phenomenon make any jewellery store staff so happy that they dance their hearts out because there is no customer in the shop?

The claim

A video has gone viral on social media of employees dancing inside a jewelry store. The claim is that with increased gold price and no customer, this is how employees are passing time.

advertisement

Several Facebook users like "Different Things" and "Rama Kulkarni" have posted this video with the caption "Gold Rs 40,000. No Customers...so employees time pass".

The truth

India Today Anti Fake News War room ( AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim.

The employees in the jewellery store are not dancing to pass time because there is no customer due to high gold prices.

This one-year-old video is of a famous jewellery shop in Delhi, where it is a regular custom for the sales-staff to start the day's business joyfully with song and dance.

How we found the truth

The clue

This video along with similar claims is viral on WhatsApp, Facebook, and Twitter.

The two-minute-long viral video shows a jewellery shop where men and women in office uniform are dancing joyfully to a song.

On Twitter, many people were curious about the song being played in the background since it was not in Hindi. Some commented that this is a very popular "pahadi" song, "chaita ki chaitwal", particularly from Uttarakhand.

We found that it was indeed the same song "chaita ki chaitwal"- a popular Gadwali number on YouTube.

Some people have also commented that this could be one of the stores of Tanishq jewellery.

With the combination of the keyword search "Chaiti ki Chaitwal Uttarakhand Tanishq", we found two similar videos on YouTube.



Which jewellery shop?



YouTuber "Uttarakhand Pahari Video online" and "Garwal villager Praveen Singh Panwar" both had uploaded the same video on September 18, 2018.

Both of them claimed in the caption of the video that this was the Tanishq showroom in Cannaught Place, Delhi.

We got in touch with the Tanishq showroom, Cannaught place who refuted saying that the video was not of any Tanishq showroom, because the "unforms the employees are wearing in the viral video are not of Tanishq".

They gave us a hint that this video could be of another famous jewellery brand "Manohar Lal jewellers".

We looked for videos related to Manohar Lal jewellers on YouTube and found the same viral video on YouTube, published on September 19, 2018, with the caption "Morning routine at Manohar Lal jewellers".

advertisement

The office of Manohar Lal Jewellers confirmed to us over the phone that the viral video was indeed shot in their office. But the claim made about the video, that employees are dancing to pass time because there was no customer to buy gold, is completely wrong.

According to them, this is a regular custom in every Manohar Lal store to start the business of the day joyfully by dancing and singing.

This video was shot last year in September at the Preet Vihar store of Manohar Lal Jewellers in New Delhi.



The conclusion

According to the newspaper report, the gold prices have increased from Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 in the last 12 months. This has affected the gold sale in the country.

But the viral claim made on social media for this particular video is misleading. The dancing video of the jewellery store is old and has nothing to do with the rising prices of gold.