A disturbing video purportedly showing one of the alleged murderers of Kanhaiya Lal getting assaulted has gone viral on social media. The video shows a man tied up and being held onto a cot by another man. Two other men were seen whipping and beating the former.

No one’s face is visible in the video. Only the sounds of a man crying in pain can be heard aside from the sound of the blows.

here. Archived versions of such a tweet can be seen

advertisement

AFWA’s investigation found that this video had nothing to do with Kanhaiya Lal’s killers at all. The video is at least four years old and allegedly shows custodial violence in Pakistan.

AFWA Probe

We reverse-searched grabs from the video on the Russian search engine Yandex, which led us to multiple YouTube videos. Some of these videos claimed that following the 2019 terrorist attack in Pulwama, Jammu and Kashmir, this is how the Indian Army interrogated a suspect. On February 14, 2019, a convoy of vehicles carrying Indian security personnel was attacked by a suicide bomber in a vehicle in the Pulwama district. The attack killed 40 Indian CRPF personnel.

Given that the videos were shared as early as February 2019, it’s clear that they had nothing to do with the alleged killers of Kanhaiya Lal.

But where is this video from?

Around the 16 seconds mark of the viral video, we were able to spot what looked like the Pakistani flag on the uniform of the man seeing holding the victim down. When we compared it with Pakistan's flag on their army outfit, it became clear that the men in the video are likely Pakistani soldiers.

We also compared the combat boots that were seen around the 1-minute-20-second-mark on the YouTube videos. A stock image of the Pakistani Army uniform on Alamy further clarified that the boots also looked similar.

Subsequent searches helped find the same video tweeted by Sher Mohammad Bugti, a spokesperson of the Baloch Republican Party. While sharing this video in July 2018, Bugti claimed “inhuman and degrading physical torture” was carried out by the Pakistani Army on a student from Balochistan.

Please Have a glance: inhuman and degrading treatment of cruel #PakArmy physical torture of innocent #Baloch student. Plz, act trough, General Assembly resolution 39/46 of 10 December 1984. in accordance with article 27 (1) @unhcr @hrw @UN @UNHumanRights pic.twitter.com/d3bjyNAEf3 — Sher Mohammad Bugti (@SherM_BRP) July 4, 2018

We also found a Dailymotion video from four years ago that also made a similar claim.

In September 2018, a Pakistani Journalist named Hamid Mir tweeted this video with the false claim that it showed Indian Army personnel torturing a Kashmiri man. However, the claim was debunked by the Times of India.

Look at this torture in Kashmir and see who is making this torture?One can understand that why India is not ready for talks with Pakistan?Yes Pakistan will definitely ask about this torture pic.twitter.com/C0nlj0MZP4 — Hamid Mir (@HamidMirPAK) September 21, 2018

At the time, Major General (Retd.) Ajay Chaturvedi confirmed that "The Indian Army uses only black DMS (Directly Moduled Sole) boots. The Pakistani Army uses sand-coloured (or desert tan-coloured) tactical boots." An Indian Army officer told the Times of India that this video supposedly showed a Pashtun man being assaulted.

Although we could not independently identify the victim or pinpoint to the location of the video, it is more than certain that the video is nearly four years old and not related to the Udaipur murder.