A set of two pictures, one of them showing a man embracing a young Sikh soldier, is going viral on social media in the context of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. It is being claimed that soon after getting leave, the soldier came to meet his father at Delhi border, where he has been protesting against the farm laws for 75 days.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the pictures to misleading. The picture was taken not in Delhi but Punjab’s Ludhiana.

The claim is being widely circulated on Facebook and Twitter. Some verified Twitter handles have also shared the post. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

We did not find any credible news report regarding the viral pictures. But with the help of some clues in the pictures, AFWA ascertained that they are from Ludhiana.

The viral pictures show a board of shipping company “FedEx” behind the men and another with “PARKING BUS STAND” written on it. Though it can’t be seen clearly, a closer look at the second board reveals “LUDHIANA” printed just below the words “BUS STAND”. Some other boards in Punjabi can also be seen.

Using related keywords, we found that a “FedEx” outlet is indeed located near Ludhiana bus stand. AFWA reached out to the owner of this “FedEx” outlet Surinder Bansal with the help of the contact number given on the Internet.

Bansal confirmed to us that the viral pictures are from outside his shop near Ludhiana bus stand. He, however, could not tell us anything about the soldiers seen in the pictures.

Our Ludhiana correspondent visited the same place and clicked some pictures to authenticate the information given by Bansal. These pictures show exactly the same boards as seen in the viral photographs.

We also have a video of this location in which the board of “PARKING BUS STAND” can be seen. India Today could not verify the identity of the soldiers or the two other men seen in the viral pictures. But it is clear that they were clicked at Ludhiana and not Delhi, and the accompanying post is also misleading. (With inputs from Munish Atrey in Ludhiana)