Following the mob lynching of a man in Jharkhand on suspicion of theft, communal posts have been on the rise on social media. Amid this, a video of a man carrying a bleeding woman and pleading for help has gone viral with hate messages.

A post by Facebook user 'R Madhu Sahu' claims that some Muslim men tried to rape the woman in Lucknow's Itaunja area and beat her up along with her brother when the two resisted. The message urged Hindus to rise and claimed that police have not registered an FIR in the incident.

advertisement

Viewers' discretion advised as the video is disturbing

The archive version of the post can be seen here.

India Today's Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Lucknow police have confirmed that both the victims and attackers are Muslims.

Another Facebook user 'Shubham Tiwari' shared the same post with the same claim. The archive version of the post can be seen here.

The post has been going viral on social media since Tuesday evening. R Madhu Sahu's post was shared by more than 34,500 users at the time of filing this story.

The post has been shared by many on Twitter as well.

In the 45-second-long viral video, a man is seen carrying an injured woman and pleading for a report to be lodged. Voices in the background can be heard asking him to get a medical report and file a complaint at a different police outpost. The man claims that "Yunus, Islam and others" attacked them and urges 'sipahi' to be sent at his home. It can be assumed from the video that he was speaking to policemen.

The viral post has a caption in Hindi, which when translated, stands to, "This incident is from Lucknow's Itaunja area. Islam and 4-5 others from the peaceful community tried to rape his sister and when he resisted, they beat them up. Rise Hindus rise. Your end is certain. Police could have taken them to hospital, but look at the misfortune of our country."

Outraged netizens reacted strongly against Muslims and police after the video went viral, following which Lucknow police issued a clarification. The official Twitter handle of Lucknow police tweeted that two groups of the same community got involved in a fight in Itaunja and the video of a man and woman named Shahrukh and Shabnam can be seen in this regard. The tweet said police had registered the case and took immediate action against the culprits.

In separate tweets, Lucknow police said action has been taken against the policeman who showed inhuman behaviour towards the victims in the video. Police said those who attacked the man and the woman have been arrested.

Though police have not clarified the exact reason behind the incident, but they have made it clear that there is no religious angle behind it.