The news of former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, partying or going abroad on a personal tour, goes viral on social media, the video of Rahul Gandhi partying in a pub with the Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Hou Yanqi. Two videos are going viral, in one he is seen checking his mobile screen while in the other he is seen flirting with a woman who is taking a drink.

People are claiming at this is the same ambassador who instigated India’s friendly country Nepal against India.

Social media users are also demanding a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into Rahul Gandhi.

‘Sanatan Dharma ki Jai Ho’ tweeted on May 3, 2022, at 10:36 am, tagging NIA, Home Ministry, Prime Minister’s Office, and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwani Upadhyay with a video, “ Rahul Gandhi Standing next to it, this Chinese woman is not a minor figure but China’s ambassador to Nepal, Hou Yanqi. He is the Chinese ambassador who instigated Nepal against India. There is an appeal to the central government to conduct an NI investigation of Rahul Gandhi.”

On the other hand, on Facebook, a user named Sujit Paswan posted the video with the hashtag #congresiculture #RahulGandhi #RahulGandhiAtRaveParty #RahulGandh and wrote, “Rahul Gandhi partying with Chinese Ambassador Hou Yankee at a pub in Nepal. A few days ago Hou Yankee is accused of honey trapping Nepalese politicians including the PM of Nepal.

Fact Check:

On internet search we found that The Kathmandu Post published the news on its website on the evening of 2 May 2022 quoting sources that Rahul Gandhi is his friend, daughter of former Nepalese ambassador to Myanmar Bhim Udas and former CNN journalist Sumanima had gone to Nepal’s capital Kathmandu on a private tour to attend Udas’ wedding.

According to The Kathmandu Post, apart from Rahul Gandhi, some other Indian VVIPs were also present for the wedding party.

Dainik Bhaskar wrote on May 4 that Congress asked, will the friend’s wedding also have to go after asking BJP?

Conclusion:

This fact check proves that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is not partying with the Chinese ambassador to Nepal, but he is attending his friend’s wedding ceremony. The claim being made by social media users by making his video viral is false, baseless and misleading.

Claim- Rahul Gandhi is partying with Hou Yanqi, the Ambassador of China to Nepal.

Claimed by- Social Media Users

Fact Check – Misleading