Amid international backlash following Nupur Sharma’s controversial remarks on Prophet Muhammad during a primetime television news debate, a video of a massive gathering went viral. Those sharing this clip claimed it was from a protest against the former BJP spokesperson.

The video was shared with hashtags like #OurProphetOurHonour and captions in Hindi that read, "For the sake of Prophet Muhammad, people of Saudi Arabia, Iran, Qatar, Kuwait, Libia, Oman, Bahrain, and Afghanistan have come together."

advertisement

Archived versions of some similar claims can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found these posts to be misleading and have nothing to do with the ongoing row. The video is more than a year old and is from Lahore, Pakistan.

AFWA Probe

A reverse search of the screenshots from the viral clip led us to the same video uploaded to YouTube on January 4, 2021. A channel named “Labbaik News” from Pakistan shared it with the title: "Allama Khadim Hussain Rizvi Chehlum | TLP Chehlum 2021."

found a tweet from January 3, 2021, that contained the same video. The text in Urdu claimed this gathering was "spiritual scenes of Chehlum of Allama Khadim Hussain Rizvi." We alsofrom January 3, 2021, that contained the same video. The text in Urdu claimed this gathering was "spiritual scenes of Chehlum of Allama Khadim Hussain Rizvi."

Subsequent searches led us to a report on a Pakistani website published on January 3, 2021. It noted that thousands of people attended the Chehlum — a remembrance and prayer service on or about the fortieth day after death — for Allama Khadim Hussain Rizvi. He was the founder of Tehreek-e-Labbaik, a far-right political party in Pakistan. On November 19, 2020, Rizvi died at the age of 54.

photography website Shutterstock. The caption stated: “Large numbers activists of hardline religious political party Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) shouting slogans during participation in the 40th day prayer of late Khadim Hussain Rizvi at Multan Road in Lahore on January 03, 2021." We searched for photographs of the event and found one on the stick image andThe caption stated: “Large numbers activists of hardline religious political party Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) shouting slogans during participation in the 40th day prayer of late Khadim Hussain Rizvi at Multan Road in Lahore on January 03, 2021."

When we compared the Shutterstock photo with the screenshot of the viral video, similar-looking advertising boards, buildings, and the elevated metro track made it clear that the gathering seen in the viral was indeed held on January 3, 2021, in Lahore, Pakistan.

Qatar, Iran, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia condemned Sharma’s controversial remarks and called for "respect for all beliefs and religions." Protests against Sharma have also taken place across India. But this video clearly does not show a mass gathering to register a protest against the now-suspended BJP spokesperson. In fact, this video is more than a year old and is from Pakistan.