Bengal’s State Assembly election results were announced on 2nd May, 2012. Since then, there have been reports of clashes between political parties from different parts of the state. Somewhere there are allegations that a group of people have killed the supporters of another party and somewhere there have been incidents of burning down of the party office. This has caused a stir at the national level. Various pictures, posts and videos of such clashes are being shared on social media.

Recently, a video was shared on social media claiming to show the present situation in Bengal related to the post poll violence, through which users are requesting for a President’s rule in the state. In the video we can see a girl jostling with an elderly woman to give water to a man lying on the ground.

The caption of the post mentions, “Strikes won’t make a difference. President’s rule along with the deployment of the army in West Bengal will make the difference”.

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by using InVid-We Verify tool to break this video into small keyframes and ran a reverse image search on Yandex which led us to a news report published by India Today on 5th May 2021 which stated “Asiranaidu (50), a native of Koyyanapeta in G Sigadam Mandal of Srikakulam district, breathed his last in front of his daughter and wife. The 50-year-old, who worked as a labourer in Vijayawada, and his family had tested positive for Covid-19. Amid fears of lockdown, they decided to return to their native village.”

Next with the help of a keyword search we found a news report on NDTV’s YouTube channel, whose headline stated “Teen Tries To Give Water To Covid Positive Father In Andhra, Stopped By Mother” The news mentions that when the family reached the village on Sunday, the villagers who learnt about their sickness asked them to isolate in a thatched hut located in an open field away from the village. Later, the father’s condition deteriorated and he died in front of his daughter and wife. In the video, the daughter can be seen weeping loudly as she struggles with her own mother to try and give water to her dying COVID positive father.

Archive Link

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above-mentioned claim to be False. The viral video does not have any relation with the alleged post election violence in Bengal . The video is not from West Bengal but it is from Andhra Pradesh where a daughter can be seen weeping loudly as she struggles with her own mother to try and give water to her dying COVID positive father.