As the final outcome of the US Presidential election is hinged on a few states where a flood of mail-in ballots is still being counted, voters have something to laugh at during the lengthy counting process.

A hilarious video clip on social media appears to show an adult website logo on CNN's screen during the live US poll coverage. An 11 seconds long viral clip shows Pornhub logo suddenly appearing on the top of a giant screen showing a map detailing the voting pattern in Pennsylvania.

advertisement

CNN news anchor John King hurriedly closes down the tab, giving a shocking look at the camera. The viral clip has no audio and appears to have been caught on a smartphone.

This viral clip circulated on Twitter and Facebook with a caption "CNN had Pornhub open" has raised

enough curiosity among the users.

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found the viral video is morphed. The original video of CNN does not show any "Pornhub" banner on the giant screen.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, here, and here.

AFWA PROBE

As soon as the morphed clip went viral, some users on Twitter raised a red flag about the same. User Lewis Wake slowed down the video and zoomed in to show how the "Pornhub" logo wobbled as it shrunk out of frame.

ENHANCE!



Here it is zoomed in at 3 frames per second.



This is such a lazy attempt but people are lapping it up immediately. pic.twitter.com/nQxoZz0mJ0— Lewis Wake (@lewiswake) November 6, 2020

Verified Twitter user and CNN contributor Tancredi Palmeri posted the original video. The original video shows a black tab appears on top of the giant screen and anchor John King swiftly flicks it away from the screen. This video has clear audio with multiple graphics plate on the screen.

This is the original video from CNN on which was edited the Pornhub fake pic.twitter.com/bcyMwZfYPU — Tancredi Palmeri (@tancredipalmeri) November 6, 2020

Conclusion

Thus, it is clear that the viral clip which aroused a lot of curiosity on social media about Pornhub's logo appearing on CNN's screen is morphed. The original video does not show any logo of the adult website.

(With inputs from Nikhil Rampal)