Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated a fertiliser plant in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, built at a cost of Rs 8,600 crore. Several social media users, including verified handles, posted a video of snaps apparently showing the new plant.

The one-minute video shows different images of factories and plants with a Hindi voiceover narrating details about the Gorakhpur plant. The Hindi text superimposed on the video translates to, "Yogi's dream come true. The fertiliser plant in Gorakhpur is now ready".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video has been made by stitching together images of plants across the globe. Only a couple of images from the Gorakhpur plant have been used.

The viral posts have been saved here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse search, we traced all the images used to make the viral video.

The very first shot showing the glowing towers was taken from the website of Chambal Fertilisers and Chemicals Limited, which is one of the largest private sector fertiliser producers in India. This picture was also used by other news websites earlier.

The next image used in the viral video is of Vadinar refinery in Gujarat. The original photograph in an article in 2018.

The third image used in the viral video was originally taken by Bloomberg. "Gulf News" had used this image in 2018 and "Livemint" in 2019 in separate articles. As per "Gulf News", this is the picture of Texas LNG plant.

The next couple of shots used in the viral video are indeed of the fertiliser plant in Gorakhpur.

These images were published earlier in different news websites while reporting on the new fertiliser plant in Gorakhpur.

Then again, several images of other plants from different places have been used in the last part of the viral video.

Pictures of Dow Chemical plant in Louisiana, United States, and BUA refinery in Abuja, Nigeria were passed off as the Gorakhpur fertiliser plant.

The last shot used in the video shows a plant of Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore Limited (FACT) taken from different websites that can be seen here and here.

The fertiliser plant in Gorakhpur

Shut for 30 years, this fertiliser plant has been revived at a cost of Rs 8,600 crore and inaugurated by PM Modi on December 7. It will produce 12.7 lakh metric tonnes of indigenous neem-coated urea every year.

Picture Courtesy: India Today

As per a PMO release, it has the world's highest prilling tower at 149.2 metres.