The Covid-19 outbreak has claimed more than 90,000 lives as of April 9 evening and infected over 15 lakh people globally. In the absence of a vaccine as of yet, social media is full of home remedies to cure a coronavirus infection.

The latest speculation circulating on the internet is that kalonji seeds (Nigella Sativa) can cure Covid-19. People are sharing on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp that kalonji has 100 per cent hydroxychloroquine, and hence, is effective in treating a coronavirus infection.

advertisement

The United States had recently sought India's help to supply hydroxychloroquine to find a cure for Covid-19. And the viral message recommends consumption of half a teaspoon of kalonji seeds with honey to prevent a coronavirus infection.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. First of all, there is no conclusive research that proves the assured efficacy of hydroxychloroquine as a wonder drug to fight Covid-19. Second, kalonji does not contain hydroxychloroquine. Third, the World Health Organization (WHO) has never recommended this combination of kalonji and honey as a preventive measure against coronavirus.

The viral post

The viral message is posted along with a clip of "Fox News" where the anchor speaks to a guest about the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine on coronavirus patients. Below the "Fox News" screen, a graphics says kalonji seeds and oil prevents coronavirus.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. The message has been posted by many users on Twitter and Facebook.

Can kalonji prevent coronavirus?

These black seeds have always been used as a flavouring agent in dishes, mostly in Asia. But kalonji seeds have several medicinal properties too. A study by the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) has called it a "miracle herb".

According to the study, antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties of Nigella Sativa seeds can provide therapeutic relief from ailments such as cancer, diabetes, heart diseases, obesity, bacterial infections, pneumonia and skin disorders.

There are also studies conducted by the NIH which used kalonji seed and oil extracts as dietary supplements along with chloroquine in the treatment of malaria, induced in mice with plasmodium berghei, a parasite that causes malaria.

Another study has also been conducted to see the "effects of Nigella sativa (Ns), Anthemis hyalina (Ah) and Citrus sinensis (Cs) extracts on the replication of coronavirus and expression of TRP genes family".

But nowhere in these studies was it found that kalonji or Nigella Sativa is the source of hydroxychloroquine. Neither of these studies could confirm that kalonji can prevent coronavirus.

advertisement

A study in Algeria has claimed to have identified compounds from Nigella Sativa as "new potential inhibitors" of the novel coronavirus.

But this is just one lab study. It needs many more studies from other laboratories and clinical trials to confirm that Nigella Sativa is effective to prevent coronavirus.

Is hydroxychloroquine a wonder drug against Covid-19?

Hydroxychloroquine has come under a lot of attention after United States President Donald Trump called it a game changer in the fight against coronavirus.

Hydroxychloroquine is an anti-malaria drug and as per a report by Lancet, the drug has displayed antiviral effects on several viruses, including coronavirus. But these experiments are still not over and the final conclusion is yet to come.

Recently an article in "The Guardian" has claimed that the efficacy of Trump's "game-changer" drug hydroxychloroquine is still "unproven". The article claimed that a limited study in France about this drug's efficacy to prevent coronavirus is not convincing enough.

India has recently sent a huge consignment of this drug to the US following an appeal from Trump. But the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has warned against using this drug for the treatment of coronavirus without proper medical prescription.

As per a news report, according to ICMR head scientist Raman Gangakhedkar, although ICMR has approved the use of hydroxychloroquine in some cases of coronavirus, but it is still at an experimental level.

Hence, the viral claim about kalonji or Nigella Sativa as the source of 100 per cent hydroxychloroquine and that it can prevent coronavirus is misleading.