A video of temple demolition is circulating on social media with the claim that the incident took place in Tamil Nadu. Sharing the video, several netizens have branded the MK Stalin-led DMK government anti-Hindu.

"Another Hindu temple has destroyed in the Taliban ruled Tamil Nadu. As usual no outrage. Keep sleeping & see the great fall," reads the caption.

advertisement

The archived version can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is not from Tamil Nadu. Instead, it shows the demolition of the Mahadevamma temple at Nanjangud in Karnataka.

AFWA probe

Many social media users had pointed out in the comment section that the video is from Karnataka.

A reverse-search of keyframes from the viral video led us to a Kannada news report published on September 10, 2021. As per the report, the video is of demolition of a temple in Mysuru district of Karnataka.

The Mahadevamma temple at Uchagani village in Mysuru's Nanjangud taluk was recently demolished by district authorities. The incident was widely reported by the media.

Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah had also tweeted the viral video on September 11, 2021, with the caption, "I condemn the demolition of an ancient Hindu temple by @BJP4Karnataka govt in Nanjanagudu, Mysuru. The demolition is done without the consultation of the people in the region & has hurt the religious sentiments."

I condemn the demolition of an ancient Hindu temple by @BJP4Karnataka govt in Nanjanagudu, Mysuru.



The demolition is done without the consultation of the people in the region & has hurt the religious sentiments.



1/2 pic.twitter.com/t1TrZy2s3t— Siddaramaiah (@siddaramaiah) September 11, 2021

Speaking to India Today's Karnataka correspondent Nolan Pinto, Mysuru district officials had said that they just followed orders for demolishing illegal religious structures across the state.

Our Mysuru bureau sent us several visuals related to demolition of the Mahadevamma temple. On comparing one of those images with a still from the viral video, similarities between the two can be seen easily.

In Tamil Nadu's Madurai district too, an unauthorised temple was razed by authorities last month. But the viral video is not from Tamil Nadu but Karnataka.

(With inputs from Mahesh Gowda in Mysuru)