Following the violent protests in Kanpur over the controversial remarks by suspended BJP leader Nupur Sharma, a video is being widely shared on social media, claiming that Uttar Pradesh police are blaming the BJP government for inciting the recent violence in Kanpur.

In the viral video, the police personnel can be seen talking on phone, saying: “BJP leaders along with the MLA have come with bombs”.

The video is shared on Facebook with the caption: “कानपुर में पुलिस वाले खुद कह रहे हैं बीजेपी MLA बम लेकर आये हैं. वो अपने किसी सीनियर आफिसर से कह रहे हैं. मगर फिर भी किसी की गिरफ़्तारी नही हुई है सिर्फ बेगुनाह मुसलमानो को ही गिरफ़्तार किया जा रहा है” (English translation: In Kanpur, police themselves are saying that the BJP MLA has brought a bomb. He is telling one of his senior officers. But still, no one has been arrested, only innocent Muslims are being arrested.)

Here’s the link to the above post.

The video is being widely shared on Facebook with similar claims.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

Using the InVid Tool we extracted keyframes from the viral video and performed a Reverse Image Search with relevant keywords. This search directed us to a news report published by NDTV India on July 10, 2021, which carried the same viral video.

According to the report, during the Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections, a video of the Etawah City SP went viral, in which he was heard complaining to his senior over the phone that BJP leaders had slapped him and had come with explosives.

Taking a cue from this, we found the same viral uploaded on the official YouTube channel of MOJO STORY on July 10, 2021. The video description reads: “During the counting of Uttar Pradesh’s Block Pramukh elections, SP City of Etawah district was allegedly slapped. SP City was caught on camera talking on a phone call and saying he has been slapped and the mob came with stones and bombs. He reportedly said that the BJP MLA and district president were leading the mob. Reports of violence came in from various districts of Uttar Pradesh, leading to a situation of mayhem and chaos.” Here is another news channel that carried the same viral video in July last year.

The incident was widely reported by mainstream media in July 2021 as well.

Thus, it is evident from the above information that an old video from Etawah is being falsely linked to the recent Kanpur violence.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news