German lawmakers have imposed strict restrictions for the unvaccinated and are even mulling mandatory Covid vaccinations in the wake of rising infections.

According to a recent survey, around two-thirds of the population in Germany has extended support for compulsory Covid vaccination. At the same time, protests have also broken out against renewed restrictions.

In the backdrop of these developments, an apparent screenshot of an article by the German news website "Deutsche Welle" has gone viral on social media. The screenshot has an image of a 'mass kissing' event.

advertisement

It is being said that this is how anti-vaxxers are protesting in Germany. The purported title of the article says, "German anti-vaccine protests outrage public health officials as thousands gather to kiss each other." The text following it reads, "Lawmakers consider law to criminalize kissing in public spaces."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the screenshot viral in the name of "Deutsche Welle" is morphed. Neither "Deutsche Welle" nor any other media outlet has published such a report.

Also, the image seen in the screenshot does not show an anti-vaccination protest in Germany. Instead, it shows couples kissing during the 'World Kiss Marathon for Education' event which was held in Chile's Santiago on September 1, 2011.

AFWA probe

We did not find any report by "Deutsche Welle" or any other news website that corroborates the viral claim.

However, it is true that a section of Germans is unhappy with the idea of mandatory vaccinations. Health staff in the country have also been receiving threats from the anti-vaccination lobby.

Reverse-searching the image used in the viral screenshot, we found it in a Dutch news report dated September 2, 2011.

As per the caption, the picture was clicked at a square in Santiago, Chile, in 2011. Here, the image has been credited to the European Pressphoto Agency (EPA) and the name of the photographer is mentioned as Felipe Trueba.

Using keyword search, we found the viral image on the official website of EPA. As per the information given here with the photograph, the students who took part in this innovative protest were demanding better education opportunities in their country.

Last year in Russia, some people were reported protesting against Covid restrictions by kissing their partners in crowded subways.

We have contacted "Deutsche Welle" for a response and this story will be updated when we receive it.