The stage is set for the summit clash of the 15th edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) on May 29, Sunday. Meanwhile, a video of Lucknow Super Giants captain KL Rahul has started making rounds on social media. The video shows Rahul getting emotional following his team's defeat in the first eliminator game against RCB.

While sharing this video, Facebook users have claimed that the LSG captain could not hold back tears following their exit from the tournament. A user posted this video with a caption that read, "You never know this pain."

advertisement

The same video was shared on YouTube with some similar claims.

An Archived version of such claims can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found these posts to be misleading as the video is altered. A Snapchat filter was used to make KL Rahul teary-eyed.

AFWA Probe

We conducted a keyword search to know if any news reports have been published on the incident. However, there were no articles that supported the claim.

We checked the repeat telecast of the match available on the streaming platform Hotstar next. Towards the end, losing captain KL Rahul appeared in front of the mike for the post-match reaction. At the 6 hours and 20 minutes mark, Rahul talks before the camera without expressing many emotions. It can be identified that scenes from this portion are the same as those in the viral video.

So, is the video manipulated?

To find out, we ran a few searches on platforms and software available to make people look emotional. Results suggested that a 'crying' filter of the popular social media app Snapchat could make this happen. The filter can make anyone look emotional even if they were happy faced in the original footage.

When we applied this filter on the face of KL Rahul from the post-match conversation, it looked similar to the video now in circulation. A comparison of the original scenes and its copies applying the 'crying' filter can be seen here.

Thus, it is safe to conclude that the video of KL Rahul getting emotional is an altered version created using a Snapchat filter.