Clashes erupted in Rajasthan's Karauli on Saturday, April 2, after stones were allegedly pelted at a motorcycle rally celebrating the Hindu New Year ‘Nav Samvatsar’ when it passed through a Muslim-dominated neighborhood. Shops and vehicles were set on fire, and several people were injured in the violence that ensued.

The Rajasthan police arrested 46 people and detained seven others for interrogation following the incident. The Bharatiya Janata Party has held the state’s ruling Congress government responsible for the violence.

advertisement

Amid this, a video showing a group of Muslim men along with cops blocking a group of people carrying saffron flags, sticks, and swords was circulated on social media with claims that it was from a Hindu New Year rally.

The video also went viral on YouTube.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claim along with the video was misleading. This was a 2016 video from Punjab.

AFWA probe

We first noticed that a few police officers and protestors in the video were wearing the Sikh turban. This gave us the first clue that the video could be from Punjab. It is noteworthy that at the one-minute eight-second mark, the narrator said he was not sure where this video was from.

At around the 0:08 mark in the viral video, we noticed the signage of a shop with “Nikhil Collection” written on it.

We further searched for “Nikhil Collection” on Google and found similar images of the same shop on JustDial. As per the listing, the shop was located on Gaushala Road in the Phagwara district of Punjab.

geolocate “Nikhil Collection” on Gaushala Road in Phagwara on Google Maps. We were also able toon Gaushala Road in Phagwara on Google Maps.

We then ran a keyword search for communal clashes that took place in the region and found multiple news reports from July 2016. As per these reports, the video is from clashes that took place between Shiv Sena activists and Muslim men supported by Sikhs in Gaushala on July 22, 2016.

Two days before the incident, Sena activists allegedly forcefully shut shops belonging to Muslims during a protest against disruption in the Amarnath Yatra in Jammu and Kashmir. This led to a clash between the two groups on July 22, 2016.

The Indian Express report on the incident carried images from the video in question.

Similar videos from the clash were also carried by other news outlets in July 2016.

advertisement

It is hence clear that the video in question is almost six years old and is not related to the recent violence in Rajasthan's Karauli.