Hours after a ceasefire was announced to end the conflict between Israel and Gaza, fresh violence has reportedly taken place at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound in Jerusalem.

Amid tensions, a video showing a group of men chanting pro-Palestine slogans in Malayalam is shared on social media with the claim that it is a scene from Rahul Gandhi's Lok Sabha constituency in Kerala's Wayanad.

advertisement

The caption to one such video reads, "This is not #Gaza. This is #Waynad, North #Kerala Rahul Gandhi constituency. #Hamas branch in India(sic)"

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. This video is from a mass demonstration held in solidarity with Palestine in Doha, Qatar.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of a keyword search in Malayalam language, we found the same video shared by multiple Facebook users as a pro-Palestine gathering by Malayali community in Qatar.

The same video was also carried in a video report by "Gulf Malayaly", a Qatar-based news portal in the Malayalam language. According to this report, the video shows the Malayali community in Qatar participating in a mass demonstration held in support of Palestine in Doha.

The video in question can be seen from the mark of 0:27 seconds in this news report.

Taking a cue from this, we further searched and found multiple news reports on a mass gathering held in on May 15 support of Palestine at the main square of Imam Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab mosque, the national mosque of Qatar. Ismail Haniya, head of the Political Bureau of Hamas who was on visit in Doha had addressed the crowd during the demonstration.

We also found multiple visuals from the same location shared on the social media handles of multiple news portals and people who participated in the event.

A comparison of a screenshot from the viral video along with two different videos from the same site taken during May 15 demonstration can be seen below.

AFWA also reached out to the Malayali community in Qatar, who had participated in the May 15 demonstration. People who attended the protest confirmed that the video in question is from Doha's Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab Mosque, which is also known as the Grand Mosque.

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is from a demonstration held in Qatar in support of Palestine and not related to Wayanad.