Aam Aadmi Party leader and Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia has claimed in an interview to the English newspaper ‘The Hindu’ that 10.21 lakh people have got jobs so far from the job portal ‘Rozgar Bazar’ of the Delhi government.

The newspaper quoted Manish Sisodia as saying- “Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday that the state government job portal Rojgar Bazar, launched in June 2020, has so far created 10.21 lakh jobs in the capital. He said that the portal has come as a big relief to the people after the pandemic and subsequent loss of livelihood. He said that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will fulfill his promise of providing 20 lakh more jobs in Delhi announced in the employment budget this year.

This news has also been covered by ZEE DELHI-NCR HARYANA.

Apart from this, many other newspapers, web portals and news channels have also published their reports on the news.

Fact Check:

To investigate this claim of Aam Aadmi Party and Manish Sisodia, we did a simple search on Google. During this we got a report published on the English newspaper ‘The Hindu‘ itself. In this report, the claim of the Aam Aadmi Party has been described as misleading.

The Hindu has titled this report- “AAP’s claim of creating 10 lakh jobs is misleading”. It has been written in detail in this report that till May 1, only 12,588 people had secured jobs through the portal. This figure of 12,588 is also an estimate of the government, as it is based solely on phone calls with them. The Delhi government does not have the names or any other details of the people who actually got the job, the information has been confirmed by multiple sources.

Conclusion:

After analyzing the report of ‘The Hindu’, it is coming out that the claim of Aam Aadmi Party is misleading. According to this report, not 10 lakh people but only 12,588 people have got jobs.

Claim Review- 10 lakh people got jobs from Delhi government’s employment portal

Claimed by- Aam Aadmi Party

Fact Check – Misleading