An order issued by the Principal Secretary to the Government, Shaleen Kabra about the resumption of 4G Internet services in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir on July 27th 2020 is becoming increasingly viral on social media platforms. The claim allegedly contains a PDF of a government order clearly stating that 4G internet connection has been restored in Jammu and Kashmir. A PDF that looks like this government order states that 4G internet services were discontinued in Jammu and Kashmir from 5th August 2019, as educational institutions in Jammu and Kashmir are currently closed until further orders due to the Corona virus epidemic and students are facing a lot of difficulty in attending online classes on 2G Internet service.

Due to this reason, keeping in view the circumstances, it has been directed by Principal Secretary to the Government Shaleen Kabra, through a government order, that the services of 4G Internet in the Union Territory will be activated from 12 noon (27/07/2020) tonight. This order has also been shared on Facebook.



Archive Link

We started the investigation by looking closely at this alleged order issued by the Jammu and Kashmir government. In this context, we found many grammatical mistakes in this order written in English, we noticed that often capital letters are used in between sentences. Also, many proper nouns have been written in lowercase letters. Below you can see the mistakes found in this order.

After that we used the keywords on Google and searched for the related news. As a result, we received a tweet published by SP of Kashmir Cyber Police Tahir Ashraf on his official Twitter account, in which he described the above order as fake and unreliable. He has also written that no such order has been issued by the government.

This is fake, no such order issued. pic.twitter.com/R43OIQMZlU — Tahir Ashraf (@Tahir_A) July 27, 2020

Archive Link

PIB Jammu and Kashmir, through its official Twitter account, also denied the fact that this order was fake and wrote that “This order is fake and no such instructions have been issued by Principal Secretary Home, Jammu & Kashmir”.

Claim:An order is being circulated on social media mentioning that directions have been given to Internet Service Providers for lifting speed related restrictions in J&K.#FactCheck:The order is fake & no such direction has been issued by Principal Secretary Home,J&K.

Via @diprjk pic.twitter.com/Z1wK46LfNM — PIB in Jammu Kashmir & Ladakh (@PIBSrinagar) July 28, 2020

Archive Link

Apart from this, we received an order issued on the official website of the Home Department of Jammu & Kashmir on 29th July, 2020 According to this order, the Government of Jammu and Kashmir has extended the ban on high speed internet 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir till 19 August, 2020. Due to this, the internet speed will be limited to 2G only.

PIB Jammu and Kashmir, through its official Twitter account, also denied the fact that this order was fake and wrote that “This order is fake and no such direction has been issued by Principal Secretary Home, J&K”.

Archive Link

Internet was banned in Jammu and Kashmir when Modi Government withdrew the special status of the state provided under Article 370 on August 5th last year. It was restored as a Union Territory. Although high-speed mobile internet is still suspended there, but 2G speed internet is available for post-paid and fixed-line customers whereas pre-paid customers can get internet service after verification for post-paid service.

Conclusion: We found the above post wrong after checking the facts. Regarding the restoration of 4G internet services in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, the orders spread in the name of Jammu and Kashmir Principal Home Secretary, Shaleen Kabra, are fake. No such orders have been issued.