Fake news, videos, and photos often go viral on social media to spread disturbance. Social media users keep sharing such disturbing videos and photos without any investigation. A similar video is going viral on all social media platforms.

In this video, it can be seen that a man is behaving badly with an elderly monk. The young man first abused and assaulted the elderly monk, then cut off his jatas and beards. Social media users claim that the person who carried out the incident is a Muslim.

Sharing this video, a user named Jansevak Aman Tripathi wrote- “In Khandwa, a Muslim youth burnt an Aghori Sadhu Maharaj and shaved all the mangoes, this pig’s child should be caught as soon as possible, all forward this post as much as possible, it will be punished in the strictest Hindu Act. @khandwapolice @mpcyberpolice”

At the same time, Rishi Raj Shankar wrote – “These peacemakers are not going to improve. Someone looks for an excuse to provoke a quarrel. In Khandwa, a Muslim youth shaved the jewel of an Aghori Sadhu Maharaj and shaved his beard all the mangoes. This young man has been arrested.”

https://twitter.com/Principalrashtr/status/1530466487261011969?s=20&t=ijEN-yW3g56Vs8VkqULBAw

At the same time, by sharing this video, many other users have also claimed the same

मध्यप्रदेश के खंडवा मैं एक युवक ने भीख मांगने वाले साधु को अपशब्द कहते हुए जटा काट दी. प्रदेश में लगातार इस तरह की घटनाएं सामने आ रही है, क्योंकि आरोपियों के साथ सरकार खड़ी रहती है। इससे पूर्व प्रदेश मैं भाजपा नेता ने मुस्लिम समझकर एक जैन धर्म के बुजुर्ग की हत्या कर दी थी 🧵1/2 pic.twitter.com/Lhf7ZASUhE — Avinash Kadbe اویناش کڈبے (@INCAvinashkadbe) May 24, 2022

Fact Check:

To check the authenticity of the video that is going viral, we first searched on Google in the context of the incident. We got a report published on NDTV. The report quoted Khandwa Superintendent of Police Vivek Singh as saying, “Khandwa Superintendent of Police Vivek Singh said that the case of assault and jata bite of the sadhu is of Sunday.

The sadhu earns his living by asking for alms in the market. At the same time, the accused Praveen Gaur is the hotel operator. There was an argument between the hotel operator and the sadhu over something, after which the hotel operator beat him up in the Surrey market and took him to the salon shop and cut off his jata. ”

Conclusion:

Other media reports have also mentioned the name of the accused who misbehaved with the sadhu as Praveen Gaur. DFRAC’s fact check revealed the fact that the youth who assaulted the elderly sadhu is not a Muslim. Therefore, the claim being made by social media users is false and misleading.

Claim Review: Hindu sadhu shaved off his beard and shaved by a Muslim man.

Claimed by – Social Media Users

Fact Check – False and Misleading