It has been more than 40 days that Shaheen Bagh has been witnessing protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens. Many political leaders and public personalities have attended the protests in solidarity too.

Now, a video of former cricketer Irfan Pathan on an open vehicle amid an excited crowd of youngsters is going viral on social media with the claim that he was at Shaheen Bagh to lend support to the protest.

advertisement

Facebook user Royale Shadab Choudhary posted the 20-second video with a caption in Hindi that translates to, One more lion is at Shaheen Bagh. The name is Irfan Pathan. The archived version can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is from Pathan’s visit to Kamarhati on the northern fringes of Kolkata and not from Shaheen Bagh.

The post has been shared by many on Facebook.

AFWA probe To verify the claim, we searched on TikTok the watermark of @irfanpathan_official seen at the end of the viral video. We found the official TikTok handle of Irfan Pathan, in which the viral video was uploaded along with the caption, I will never know what retirement is... Thank you all for the #kolkata #karamhati #love. @irfanpathan_official I will never know what retirement is... Thank you for all the #kolkata #karamhati #love KGF The Monster - niru.vaish Pathan posted the same video on his official Twitter handle and Instagram account with the same caption on January 14, 2020. Searching the Internet using keywords related to Pathan’s Kolkata tour, we found a news article published in India Blooms. According to the article, Pathan was felicitated on January 14 in Kolkata’s Kamarhati by former West Bengal sports minister Madan Mitra, who can also be seen in the video. On January 4, 2020, Pathan had announced retirement from all formats of the game. The Kolkata event was to honour him for his contribution to cricket, and the viral video was shot during his roadshow. We could not find any media report on Pathan’s statement in support of Shaheen Bagh protests or one which says he went there. However, he did express concern about the students of Jawaharlal Nehru University and Jamia Millia Islamia. It is clear that the viral video is of Pathan’s visit to Kolkata and not Shaheen Bagh.