A viral video on social media shows a woman, holding a kid in her arms, narrating atrocities committed by Muslims, even as some other women are seen crying behind. The woman explains how Muslims attacked Hindu houses and took away their men, and how police have turned a blind eye to their plight. It is being claimed that the incident is from Rajasthan.

advertisement

"This video is from Rajasthan. Now it is Rajasthan's turn," reads the claim along with the 45-second viral video on which many social media users have criticised the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government for being "anti-Hindu".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim about the video to be misleading. The video is not from Rajasthan but Haryana. At 30 seconds in the video, the woman is heard saying they might have to leave Mewat due to atrocities by Muslims. Mewat (now Nuh) is a district in Haryana.

The video, posted by Facebook user "Mintu Pandey", has been viewed more than 91,000 times and shared over 10,000 times till the filing of this story. The archived version can be seen here. The video is viral on Twitter as well.

AFWA probe

Using related keywords, we found the extended version of the video on the Facebook page of a news portal called "Metro Plus".

At the beginning of the video, the same woman says she is a resident of Punhana and Muslims have attacked their houses and other nearby places. Punhana is a town in Haryana's Mewat district. The description of the video also says that it is from Punhana in Mewat district.

Many Twitter users have also claimed that the video is from Haryana.

We also found a report by Navbharat Times published on May 14, saying that clashes broke out between two communities at Punhana, leading to several injuries due to stone-pelting. The report says police registered cases against 300 unknown persons.

Another report by Navbharat Times says that some social institutions in Mewat protested in front of the secretariat against repeated attacks on Hindus over the last two months in the district.

We could not verify the exact date of the video but it is clear that the incident is from Mewat in Haryana and not Rajasthan as claimed.

Also Read | CBSE datesheet to be released by HRD Ministry anytime soon

Also Watch | Did Air India charge passengers three times fare for social distancing?