Several videos in support of the farmers' protest are viral on social media by men claiming to be army jawans. One such video that went viral on social media was of a Sikh man saying how he got labelled a "terrorist" for standing with the protesting farmers at the Delhi border, while he was hailed as a patriot when he stood at the China border wearing the uniform.

advertisement

In the video, the man says, "Prime Minister Narendra Modiji, I want to tell you one thing. When I was wearing this uniform and standing at the China border, I was a patriot. But when I removed the uniform and stood at Delhi border, I became a traitor, a terrorist, a Khalistani."

The full video can be seen below:

A jawan asks questions, will bhakts and their god respond?#FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/nmYFOj3auq — India Resists (@India_Resists) December 28, 2020

Now, according to a viral claim on social media, the man in this viral video is Punjabi singer and actor "Goldy Manepuria", who falsely claimed to be an Indian soldier and provoked protesting farmers through his video. Several media outlets also published articles supporting this claim.

The caption in Hindi along with the screenshot of one such article translates to, "The fake characters of a fake movement. A video has gone viral on social media in which a person claiming to be an Indian soldier is trying to provoke the farmers. When the investigation was done, it was found that he's a Punjabi singer and actor, and is not associated with the Indian Army. The name of the person is Goldy Manepuria. He's wearing an Army uniform in the viral video."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Though the man in the viral video is an artist, he did serve in the 175 Medium Regiment of the Indian Army from 2002-18.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Searching the Internet using the keyword "Goldy Manepuria", we found an article by "The Tribune" carrying a picture of the same man seen in the viral video. According to the article published on January 4, Goldy is an ex-Army man based out of Punjab's Gurdaspur.

We further found a Facebook page in the name of "Goldy Manepuria". According to the page, Goldy is a singer and writer. However, we found that the person has also shared several images of him in Army uniform on this page.

We then reached out to Goldy, who confirmed to us that his real name is Manjinder Singh and he is an ex-Army man who served the Indian army for nearly 16 years.

"I served the Indian Army from 2002-18. I was in the 175 Medium Regiment and served as Lance Havildar for almost four years. My last posting was at Siachen Glacier," he said.

advertisement

"My real name is Manjinder Singh and I'm from Manepuria village in Punjab's Gurdaspur district. People fondly call me Goldy. I'm not a full-time artist. I do music programmes at times with friends. Other times, I'm a farmer. It was very disheartening when people called us terrorists for protesting against the farm laws. That's the reason I'd put up that video," Goldy said.

He also shared with us an image of his Army canteen card.

Hence, the claim that Goldy Manepuria is a Punjabi artist who falsely claimed to be an Indian soldier is untrue. Goldy did serve in the Indian Army for 16 years and he's also a part-time singer.