A video is being shared on social media claiming it was a recent speech of Nupur Sharma after her alleged controversial remarks against Prophet Muhammad. This video shows Nupur Sharma raising questions about the midnight Supreme Court hearings for terrorists, and making statements against Triple Talaq, Burqa and the marriage system in Islam. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Claim: Nupur Sharma’s recent speech after her alleged controversial remarks against Prophet Muhammed. Fact: The video shared in the post shows the clippings of Nupur Sharma’s old speech at the ‘Vyakhyan’ program organised by the Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram in Maharashtra. This event took place on 24 May 2018. It is not a recent video. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.

On reverse image search of the screenshots in the video, we could not find any credible sources related to this video. When we searched for the details of the video using relevant keywords on the internet, similar visuals were found in a collage of images tweeted by Nupur Sharma on 25 May 2018. Nupur Sharma’s tweet reads, “Spoke on “Women in Nationalism” at ‘Vyakhyan’ organised by Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram at Nagar, Maharashtra today. It was also a privilege to have interacted with some very enterprising Nagar women who are contributing to the society in various ways”.

Spoke on “Women in Nationalism” at ‘Vyakhyan’ organised by Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram at Nagar, Maharashtra today.



It was also a privilege to have interacted with some very enterprising Nagar women who are contributing to the society in various ways. pic.twitter.com/6NYx5wSwoE — Nupur Sharma (@NupurSharmaBJP) May 24, 2018

When we searched for further sources using these keywords on the internet, a video showing Nupur Sharma’s speech at the ‘Vyakhyan’ program was found to be posted by a Facebook user on 24 My 2018. From 3:45 minutes of the video, we could see Nupur Sharma making the same statements as shown in the post. The video shared in the post was created by editing some portions of Nupur Sharma’s full speech at the ‘Vyakhyan’ event held in Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram.

Following the protests from Muslims and Islamic countries over Nupur Sharma’s remarks on Prophet Muhammed, on 05 June 2022, the BJP suspended Nupur Sharma from the party stating that her views are contrary to the Party’s position on various matters. Following the suspension from the party, Nupur Sharma issued an apology and unconditionally withdrew her remarks on Prophet Muhammed, saying that it was not her intention to hurt anyone’s religious feelings. Amidst death and rape threats to Nupur Sharma over her comments on Prophet Muhammed, on 07 June 2022, Delhi Police granted her police security. Lately, there are no reports of her attending any public event and speaking anything about Supreme Court trials, or her views related to Islam and Hinduism.

To sum it up, a video showing Nupur Sharma’s old speech at the Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram in Maharashtra is being shared as a recent one.