Since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, social media has been flooded with videos and images that purportedly show the ongoing war. Of course, not all this media is from the ongoing conflict.

In that vein, a video that is a compilation of military activities conducted by various armies across the world has gone viral with the claim that it is the footage of ongoing clashes.

advertisement

Several Facebook users have shared the aforementioned ten-minute-long video with captions like, “Russia vrs Ukraine live war update.”

The India Today Anti-Fake War room ( AFWA) found that this is not at all related to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine crisis. This is a compilation of old and unrelated videos of armed forces from the US, Germany, and more.

AFWA probe

The first part of the viral video clearly shows the US flag masted on the army tanks. This video has been available on the internet for a couple of years at least. Since it shows the US flag and it is an old video, it has no relation to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict.

At the 1.43 minutes mark, an army infantry exercise can be seen, where soldiers are dropped from the helicopters, following which, they were seen carrying out various military exercises.

We found this portion of the viral video on a YouTube channel called “WanaleeHunter”, uploaded in 2021. The title of the YouTube video reads, “Bundeswehr’s German Army Rapid Response Forces Division in Green Griffin 2021”.

The YouTube channel describes this video as the “U.S. Soldiers with the 12th Combat Aviation Brigade and the German Army Rapid Forces Division during GREEN GRIFFIN 21 on Oct 4, 2021, at Lehnin, Germany.”

The images of the video were posted on other social media platforms and websites, calling it military exercise GREEN GRIFFIN 21, a multinational combat training exercise conducted among NATO allies and partner forces.

The viral video has been laterally inverted so it becomes difficult to identify its original source.

The last portion of the video shows armoured tanks. We found this portion of the viral video was also laterally inverted. Although we have managed to locate the same video on a couple of YouTube channels uploaded in 2020. As per these channels, these are “K2 Black Panther (Hangul: K2 ''; Hanja: K2 '')”, next-generation South Korean battle tanks “designed by the South Korean Agency for Defense Development and manufactured by Hyundai Rotem. “

We could not independently verify the details given on the YouTube channels about these tanks and what exercise they were carrying out in the video.

advertisement

But since all these videos are old and involve various military activities of other countries, it is clear that this viral video is not related to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine crisis.