A photograph showing children living inside four-ft diameter sewage pipes is viral on social media with the claim that it is a scene that shows the deplorable living conditions of Indian children in a slum. Netizens are criticising the viral photograph along with the government for its lack of focus on homeless children.

The caption in the Malayalam language to one such image uploaded on Facebook translates to English as, “Image shows the condition of children in Indian slums. This is the same nation where a grand temple for Rama is being built.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false. This is an old photograph from Bangladesh and not related to India.

The archived versions of the post can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of a reverse image search and appropriate keywords, we found that the viral photograph is seven years old and was taken in Bangladesh by the Bangladeshi photographer Faisal Azim.

We found the image featured in The Guardian in its Atkins Ciwem environmental photographer of the year 2014 winners list on 26 June 2014.

According to the article, the image titled “Life in the circle” was captured in the year 2013 in Bangladesh and it won Faisal Azim, the Atkins City Scape Award in 2014.

The description provided with the image by The Guardian reads, "According to a government report, the total number of beggars, or vagabonds, across Bangladesh is now more than 900,000. A vagabond appears to contradict the right to life and freedom of movement, which are guaranteed as fundamental rights by the Bangladeshi constitution. There are allegations of physical, mental, and even sexual torture against people in shelter centers."

We also found the image featured in the Daily Mail on July 10, 2014.

Besides, several other websites publishing award-winning environment photographs have also featured the viral picture with the claim that it is from Bangladesh.

Hence, the photograph showing the miserable condition of children inside cement pipes is a seven-year-old picture, taken in 2014 in Bangladesh and is not related to India.

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Did Kashmir witness stone-pelting like this viral post claims?

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Has Russia gifted 1 million doses of Covid vaccine to Pakistan?