India has been playing a vital role in the large-scale supply of Covid-19 vaccines across the world. On March 5, London received a batch of Made in India Covid-19 vaccines, said External Affairs Minister of India, Dr S Jaishankar.

In this context, a post is viral on both Facebook and Twitter with a claim that Queen Elizabeth II thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for Covid-19 vaccine. The thank-you note was displayed on a giant screen at London's world-famous Piccadilly Circus.

advertisement

The text on the screen along with the image of the Queen reads, "Thank you PM Modi for sending us COVID-19 vaccines. You are a good boy."

The caption in Hindi along with the image translates as, "Queen Elizabeth II in London has set up a billboard thanking Modiji for helping England with the corona vaccine. Thank you Modiji for making us proud again. "

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the image along with the claim is morphed. The Queen has not yet made any comment thanking PM Modi or India for the Covid vaccines.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

According to a report in Reuters, a UK government spokesperson confirmed that the country has ordered 100 million doses of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, of which 10 million doses will come from the Serum Institute of India. While EAM Jaishankar tweeted that Made in India vaccines were delivered in London, we couldn't find any media report on Queen Elizabeth II thanking India or PM Modi for the coronavirus vaccine.

India-UK partnership in action. Made in India vaccines delivered in London today. #VaccineMaitri pic.twitter.com/hDqiysZRZF — Dr. S. Jaishankar (@DrSJaishankar) March 5, 2021

With the help of a reverse image search, we found the original version of the image of the Queen on the billboard. The text with the image read "We will be with our friends again; we will be with our families again; we will meet again," and was carried by various media organisations (https://www.newsweek.com/queen-elizabeth-coronavirus-picadilly-circus-billboard-boris-johnson-uk-1496838 ) in April 2020. The message was further attributed to, "Her Majesty The Queen".

According to the reports, this was an extract from the Queen's message of hope to the nation amid the Covid pandemic which appeared on Piccadilly Lights in London from April 7 to April 19.

BBC London also tweeted the same image on April 8, 2020.

Queen's message of hope lights up Piccadilly Circushttps://t.co/l6l0y6HDWj pic.twitter.com/KlE3C1unLP — BBC London (@BBCLondonNews) April 8, 2020

Multiple images shot from different angles of the same billboard with the Queen's message of hope were also published by stock image site Getty Images (http://bitly.ws/caAH ) in April 2020.

We also found the same image of Queen on the billboard from April 2020 available as a free template on multiple memes generating websites where users can change the text on the screen.

advertisement

A comparison between the image along with the viral claim and the original image can be seen below.

Hence, it is clear that the viral image in question is morphed. Queen Elizabeth II has not made any public statement thanking PM Modi for providing vaccines to India.