A picture of a group of kids sitting inside a dilapidated structure is circulating on social media as the condition of a government school in Gujarat. The building is so worn out that a large chunk of the roof is missing and iron rods poking out.

Sharing the picture, netizens have sarcastically commented that the Gujarat government has opened a “solar power” school. “Gujarat government just opened new Solar Power School. Thanks Modiji,” reads the caption.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the picture to be misleading. The picture is almost four years old and of a government school in Uttarakhand’s Almora district. The school is in the same condition now.

AFWA investigation

With the help of reverse image search and keywords, we found that a Facebook user “Joginder Rawat” had posted the picture on March 9, 2018.

Commenting on the deplorable condition of the school, Joginder wrote that it is located at Khatoli village in Talla Sult region of Uttarakhand. Sult is a block in Uttarakhand’s Almora district.

We also found the viral image in a “Jagran” report dated March 10, 2018. The report confirmed that the picture is of a government primary school in Khatoli. It said the students’ parents had complained several times to education officials to repair the roof but no action was taken.

AFWA found a similar image of the same school in an August 2019 report by “Amar Ujala”. This report also says that the picture is from the Khatoli primary school. This suggests that the school wasn’t repaired even after almost one-and-a-half years.

AFWA contacted Facebook user Joginder Rawat who’d posted the picture in March 2018 to check whether the roof is now repaired or not. Joginder is a native of Sult block in Almora district. With the help of a local Chandan Singh, Joginder sent us some recent pictures of this school which show that the roof is still in the same condition.

We spoke to Chandan who confirmed that the roof has not been repaired even after several complaints to the officials concerned. The place seen in the picture is the corridor of the school where students have to sit due to leakage in classrooms, Chandan added.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the viral claim about the picture is not true. The four-year-old picture of a school’s damaged roof is from Uttarakhand and not Gujarat. The school is in the same condition now.