A screenshot of a post, purportedly by a Punjabi media outlet Daily Post Punjabi, is widely circulated on social media. The post claims that Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwat Mann had asked for three months leave after his wedding. It has also been claimed that in his absence Raghav Chadha will take charge of Punjab.

The text in Punjabi in the screenshot reads: “ਵਿਆਹ ਦੇ ਰੁਝੇਵਿਆਂ ਕਾਰਨ ਮੁੱਖ ਮੰਤਰੀ ਭਗਵੰਤ ਮਾਨ ਨੇ ਪਾਰਟੀ ਹਾਈਕਮਾਨ ਤੋਂ ਤਿੰਨ ਮਹੀਨਿਆ ਦੀ ਛੁੱਟੀ ਦੀ ਕੀਤੀ ਮੰਗ,ਰਾਘਵ ਚੱਢਾ ਸੰਭਾਲ ਸਕਦੇ ਨੇ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਦੀ ਕਮਾਨ” (English translation: Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann seeks three months leave from party high command due to busy schedule of marriage, Raghav Chadha can take charge of Punjab)

Facebook users are sharing the purported screenshot with a caption: “ਕਈਆਂ ਨੇ ਹੁਣ ਵੀ ਕਹਿਣਾ ਸਰਕਾਰ ਦਿੱਲੀ ਤੋਂ ਨਹੀਂ ਚਲਦੀ” (English translation: Many will still say that the government does not run from Delhi)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the video, and found it to be false.

While looking for similar posts on Facebook, we found that the same screenshot was shared by Daily Post Punjabi on July 8, 2022, where they clarified that the viral screenshot was FAKE.

The caption in English reads: “By using the logo of Daily Post Punjabi, mischievous people are spreading false news. #Fakenews #viralpost #DailyPostPunjabi”

We also ran a keyword search, but could not find any credible media report to corroborate the viral claim.

However, on scanning through the Facebook and Twitter accounts of CM Bhagwat Mann, we found several posts of him working, which were posted after his wedding on July 7, 2022. The posts can be seen here and here.

In other news, AAP Rajya Sabha member Raghav Chadha has been appointed as the chairman of the temporary advisory committee in Punjab. According to a report by Times Now, “Chadha will oversee the conception and implementation of pro-people initiatives of the AAP government in Punjab and advise the government on matters of finance accordingly.”

So, the viral screenshot, stating that Mann has asked for three months leave, is false.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news