Spread the truth:

A Video is viral where a mob is seen celebrating with Congress flag in hands and the other flag is claimed as Pakistan’s.

The man making the video is saying loudly

“कांग्रेस की रैली में कैसे पाकिस्तान का झंडा लहराया जा रहा है, गौर से देखिये आप, गौर से देखिये इस रैली को इसमें पाकिस्तान का झंडा कैसे लहरा रहे है ये लोग, गौर से देखो, देखो. तुम्हारी खुद की गलती है, गौर से देखो ये . भाजपा का, कांग्रेस पाकिस्तान का झंडा लहराते हुए आप खुद देख सकते है. ये चुरी की है, चुरी की रिपोर्ट है कहीं और की नहीं है. शर्म आती है मुझे इस रैली में खड़े हिन्दू भाइयों को कहते हुए, शर्म कर लो रे शर्म. तुमने ही वोट दिया था न इनको”

Translation “Look Closely how Pakistan’s flag is being waved in Congress rally. This is your own fault. You can see for yourself BJP’s (correcting) Coongress, Pakistan’s Flag being waved. This report is from Churi, nowhere else. I’m ashamed, I’m ashamed of calling these Hindu brothers that Shame on you, you voted them”

Truth –

Strangely #FakeNews makers have always been fascinated by Pakistan’s flag. Before assembly elections, this was their favorite tool, and it’s back again. While in most cases, they usually claim any green color flag as Pakistan’s as green is the common feature, in others it’s been added digitally.

In this viral video it’s obviously is not Pakistan’s Flag as it has two white vertical stripes on both sides while Pakistan flag has only one on left. Moreover there are few shapes/mosque probably printed which also is not in Pakistan’s Flag.

Below are few screenshots taken from the video

Following is a comparison

Rajasthan Police also cleared this taking refrence from SMHoaxSlayer

Alert 🚫🔊 This video 📽️ circulating on #socialmedia claims that there is a Pakistan flag being waved in a victory procession of @INCIndia. This is false and we request people not to get trapped by this ❌. We are trying to trace the mischief-maker.#FakeNews @SMHoaxSlayer pic.twitter.com/WDnABuJx2M — Rajasthan Police (@PoliceRajasthan) December 12, 2018

Another one

This video is also viral which doesn’t have any Pakistan’s flag in sight. This video was viral in November too. The flag being waved is plain green color one.

Truth

Ashok Gehlot official page posted this video 3 weeks ago

“आज यहां जोधपुर में ईद मिलादुन्नबी के अवसर पर आयोजित जुलूस को हरी झंडी दिखाकर रवाना किया।“

Previous Pakistan Flag Fakes

More Fakes

This is what happened when @INCIndia won in Rajasthan….The 1st thing which was openly displayed was Pakistan Flag with Islamic Write-ups…. Well Hindus always suffered with alter ego and paid heavily. They'll be doing it again pic.twitter.com/mo8dQvGhrw — Ravi Bagri FCA (@ravibagri) December 12, 2018

ये देखो कांग्रेस पार्टी को वोट देने का नतिजा कांग्रेस की जीत पे पाकिस्तान का झंडा लहराते हुए

मूर्ख हिन्दूओ भविष्य मे बहुत पछताओगे।2019 में सोच समझ कर देश और हिंदू हित मे वोट करे pic.twitter.com/CCzJKWSyI1 — Narpat Jain (@narpatj007) December 12, 2018

कांग्रेस की जीत पे पाकिस्तान का झंडा लहराते हुए

मूर्ख हिन्दूओ भविष्य मे बहुत पछताओगे। — Kailash Mali (@malikailash8140) December 11, 2018

https://www.facebook.com/groups/NARENDRAMODI31/permalink/3260676263955983/

https://www.facebook.com/groups/aslijokes/permalink/2733808376660773/

Related