A video of some people with BJP flags in hand, including a woman, vandalising what looks like a BJP office is viral on social media with the claim that saffron camp workers are wrecking their own party office over lack of oxygen. India at present is facing acute shortage of liquid medical oxygen for treatment of critical Covid patients.

One such caption in Hindi with the video translates to, “BJP workers vandalise their own party office after not getting oxygen”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video is of BJP workers damaging their party office in Gazole assembly constituency of Malda district in West Bengal, demanding that the party candidate be changed.

The archived version of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

We could not find any credible media report of BJP workers vandalising their own party office over oxygen shortage.

In the video, people are heard talking in Bengali, and banners in Bengali are also seen. Taking a cue from this, we did a reverse image search of key frames of the video with appropriate keywords, and found a screenshot of the same video in a report published by “ABP Ananda” on March 23.

According to the report, the woman in the video is Sagarika Sarkar, a Zilla Parishad member and BJP leader from Malda. Dissatisfied over the BJP’s ticket distribution for the assembly elections, she’d vandalised the party block office in Gazole in March.

An “ETV Bharat” report published on March 24 also confirms the incident.

Quoting BJP district president Gobinda Chandra Mondal, the report said Sagarika had submitted a candidate application for Gazole assembly seat, which was rejected by the party. Furious, Sagarika and a group of her supporters then vandalised the party office in Gazole. The BJP district unit later suspended her for the act.

Reports also say that within hours of the suspension, Sagarika joined the Trinamool Congress.

A different video of the same group of people, including Sagarika in the same attire as seen in the viral video, protesting against BJP’s Malda district president was uploaded on March 19 by local news website “WTV News” on Facebook.

According to media reports, on March 18, the BJP had announced the candidate list for Malda district. Soon after, a section of disgruntled BJP workers hit the streets and even vandalised party offices in the district, demanding replacement of candidates.

India Today’s Malda correspondent also clarified to us that the video has nothing to do with oxygen shortage.

Also, while the viral video has been available on the Internet at least since March 19, the issue of oxygen shortage gained momentum in the country much later. Hence, it is clear that the viral video is not of BJP workers vandalising their own party office over oxygen shortage.