A video which looks like the clipping of a television news report is going viral across social media as the captions claim, it shows a “dead person waking up to adjust the body bag” during the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine. The captions also suggest this is how Ukraine is faking the deaths of people in the war.

Here is one such Facebook post:

Facebook Post | Archived Link

Fact Crescendo also received the same video on the 24×7 WhatsApp Tipline number- Factline, 904 905 3770 with a request to verify if it is indeed from the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine. Archived Link | Archived Video

We found that the video is old. Here’s how…

FACT CHECK METHODOLOGY

At first we carefully studied the video and decided to translate the text written on it. The text is in German and translates into Demonstration against Climate Policy.

Following this, we ran a reverse image search on keyframes from the video that we got with the invid-we verify tool. We came across this news report published on Austrian News outlet OE24’s official website on February 4, 2022. We saw that the viral clip is actually a cropped version of a news report titled “Shock protest: 49 activists in body bags,” on a Protest Demonstration against Climate Policy held outside the Federal Chancellery in Vienna:

Screenshot, OE24 news report

OE24 Link

Here is a comparison between the viral video and the video news report on OE24:

We observed that the news report mentions that the demonstration was by Fridays for Future, a global civic group that is working to raise awareness against climate change. We checked their Social Media handles and found this tweet about the same Demonstration:

Bei einer Aktion von Fridays For Future lagen heute Aktivist*innen „tot“ vor das Kanzleramt. Sie symbolisieren jene Menschen, die durch das Versagen der österreichischen Klimapolitik sterben werden. (2/x)https://t.co/AtIKHx7psa — Fridays For Future Wien (@ViennaForFuture) February 4, 2022

CONCLUSION

From the above evidences, it is clear that the viral video is actually of a Protest Demonstration against Climate Policy held at Vienna and has absolutely no connection with the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war. The claim is False.