After the six-hour outage on October 4, will social media platforms belonging to Facebook be down for seven days now? Such a message is circulating on social media with the claim that it was tweeted by none other than Mark Zuckerberg.

“Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger to shutdown again for 168 hours(7days) I apologize for the disruption. I know how much you rely on our services to stay connected with the people you care about. we will start our upgrade on Wednesday, October 6th 2021 1300 hours,” reads the purported tweet by the Facebook co-founder.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AWFA) has found that the viral screenshot is morphed. Zuckerberg has not posted anything about shutting down the said social media platforms for seven days.

The archived version of one such post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

Several grammatical and syntax errors in the post said to be from Zuckerberg raised doubts about its authenticity. For example, “shut down” would be two words instead of one; a full stop between the first two sentences is missing; “we” is in lower case at the start of a sentence; and there are space issues between several words.

We then searched for the post on Zuckerberg’s official Facebook account but did not find any regarding the shutting down of social media platforms again. A simple comparison of the viral screenshot with a real screenshot of one of Zuckerberg’s recent posts reveals a difference in fonts, indicating that the former is not genuine.

The above apology was posted by Zuckerberg on October 4, when Facebook services were being gradually restored after the outage. A few hours later, he again posted a lengthy note on the various accusations against the company.

According to Facebook, the October 4 outage occurred due to changes in configuration that affected the company’s internal tools and systems.

Coming back to the viral claim, we also checked Zuckerberg’s Instagram account but could not find any post regarding the shutting down of Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger.

An Internet search for credible news reports on yet another outage revealed no results either. Had Zuckerberg made such a post, it would’ve surely made headlines, given that the October 4 outage was the longest in Facebook’s history.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the apparent screenshot of Zuckerberg’s Facebook post, warning of a seven-day downtime of various social networking platforms, is fake.

(Inputs by Sonali Khatta)