The online bully, Girish Maheshwari, was arrested on Thursday for his online threat.

When we examined his social media accounts, the irony we discovered could not have been more stark!

Maheshwari had Lord Hanuman as his profile picture on both his Facebook and Twitter accounts.

Girish Maheshwari's enraging tweet

On his twitter (@GirishK1605) handle, he claimed to be "more dangerous than Hitler". That account has now been deleted.

advertisement

On his Facebook, Maheshwari aspired to "Stand Tall and Be Strong" like Hanuman.

Following the outrage on social media, when home minister Rajnath Singh intervened into the matter, Maheshwari landed into the clutches of Maharashtra police meekly.

He was picked up from the outskirts of Ahmedabad.

Allegations that Maheshwari was associated with the BJP originate from his Facebook profile. Here, he has claimed to be an "accounting associate" at the BJP.

At the same time, he also claims to be "self-employed"

We found out that 36-year-old Maheshwari, who was arrested from the outskirts of Ahmedabad, is originally from Ajmer district of Rajasthan.

Along with his three brothers, he has been living in Gujarat for the last six years.

He and his brother, Nandu, also own a grocery store opposite a Swaminarayan temple.

According to RV Asari, Superintendent of Police in rural Ahmedabad, he lives at Bavla, a satellite town.

Maheshwari has been an accountant, but was currently working as a sales executive for a company dealing in agro products.

Asari said police have checked his background and did not find him associated with any political party.

Gujarat BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya also rebutted reports that Maheshwari worked for the BJP.

"No post like accounting associate exists in the Gujarat BJP. So there is no question of Girish Maheshwari working for us. He is not even a primary member of our party," Pandya said.

We also spoke to Maheshwhari's brother Nandu, who was in Mumbai trying to arrange for a bail application for his brother.

He too said they have nothing to do with BJP.

We looked for the name of Girish Maheshwari on the websites of both the Gujarat and Rajasthan BJP, but could not find any entry linked to him.

Scanning through the social media posts of Girish Maheshwari, it is clear that he is a BJP supporter and a fan of prime minister Narendra Modi.

Most of his posts on Facebook and now-deleted twitter account reveal that he mostly used to just retweet or share posts of others.

advertisement

But once in a while, when he did write something, it used to be outrageous.

For example, he once asked "the Hindu brothers and sisters to pool in money so that he could arrange dance of Sonia Gandhi".

But there is nothing on his timeline to establish that Girish Maheshwari was an office-bearer of the BJP.

Watch | Burari deaths case: Crime branch questions tantrik Geeta Mata