A video showing Nashik Police paying a surprise visit outside the apartment of newlyweds who got married at home during the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19, is being shared online crediting Mumbai Police.

The clip has gone viral with the police and several others applauding the couple as it comes at a time when a nationwide lockdown is in place till May 17, 2020, to arrest the spread of the novel Coronavirus in India.



In the 3.17 viral video, a couple dressed in bridal attire is seen looking at the cops from their balcony, as a policeman speaks to them through a loudspeaker in Marathi saying, "everybody must know that this girl got married without flouting any rules and she didn't give any celebratory colour to her wedding. And after the lockdown ends some good days will come and you will give everyone a party I am sure. But I'm also feeling bad that you had to do it under such circumstances. I will play a song on my phone to congratulate you on behalf of all of us," and goes on to play the Bollywood song 'Mubarak Ho Tum Ko Ye Shaadi Tumhari'.



The clip is being shared with the false caption, "The unseen face of Mumbai Police"

Click here to view, and here for an archive.

Viral on Facebook

We searched with the same caption on Facebook and found that it was being shared with the false caption.





Also Read: No, The United States Has Not Banned TikTok

FACT-CHECK

BOOM found that the video is from Nashik, where a couple went ahead with their wedding having a small ceremony at home and the Nashik Police decided to surprise them with a special gesture of appreciation.

The same viral video was earlier tweeted by Maharashtra Chief Minister, Uddhav Thackeray on Twitter stating, "A couple decided to get married at home without violating any lockdown rules, so the Nashik Police had their own way to celebrate and congratulate the newlyweds."

लॉकडाऊनचे सर्व नियम पाळून घरातल्या घरात लग्न करणाऱ्या जोडप्याला @nashikpolice यांनी अनोख्या शैलीत दिल्या शुभेच्छा!



A couple decided to get married at home, without violating any lockdown rules, so the @nashikpolice had their own way to celebrate and congratulate the newly weds👇🏼 pic.twitter.com/XjeqKdILSD — CMO Maharashtra (@CMOMaharashtra) May 2, 2020

Marathi Newspaper Sakal had reported on April 29, 2020, on the wedding stating that the broom who hails from Gujarat and the bride who is from Nashik itself had gotten married in presence of few family members at Ashoka Marg where the Nashik Police landed up below their apartment surprising the couple and congratulating them.

BOOM spoke to Nashik Police Commissioner, Vishwas Nangare Patil, who confirmed that the special gesture to acknowledge their act was planned by the Nashik Police. "This is around 8 days back when a couple had gotten married in the city following social distancing norms and was attended by the Nashik Police," said Patil.

Maharashtra has reported 14541 positive COVID-19 cases and 583 deaths while writing this article. Follow BOOM's LIVE blog for recent updates: Coronavirus LIVE Update: India's Cases Rises To 46,711; 1583 Dead