As the Bharatiya Janata Party swept the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, memes depicting Yogi Adityanath’s victory against Akhilesh Yadav through bulldozers crushing bicycles populated social media.

While the bicycle is the electoral symbol of the Samajwadi Party, the bulldozer is often used to refer to Yogi Adityanath’s administration being tough on crime — UP authorities have bulldozed illegal properties of members of so-called mafias.

advertisement

In fact, calling “bulldozer” a brand for his government, the BJP CM said that the “bulldozer is effective for the expressway and also to run over the mafia.”

As the BJP’s victory in UP became apparent on March 10, a short video clip of a bulldozer stunt began making the rounds on Twitter and Facebook with the claim that this was how people were celebrating Yogi Adityanath’s victory.

The caption in Hindi on one such viral post reads, “Long live, Bulldozer Baba. There is no limit to the happiness of bulldozers in UP today.”

The India Today Anti-Fake News War Room ( AFWA) found that this particular video is from China. In 2016, this bulldozer stunt was shown by a Chinese manufacturing company at an industrial trade fair in Shanghai.

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of the InVID tool and reverse image search, we found the original video and details about it.

Initially, we found a similar video of the same kind of bulldozer stunt taken from the top on several websites and on YouTube. This video was uploaded to YouTube in June 2017 and the title in Ukrainian language said, “In China, a 17-ton bulldozer danced alongside spectators at a technology show.”

In 2017, the same video was shared in news reports on several tech news portals.

According to these reports, this bulldozer stunt was performed in a trade fair in China by a Chinese tractor manufacturing company called Lovol. The name Lovol can also be seen written clearly on the bulldozer in the viral video.

We also found another YouTube video uploaded to the YouTube channel Foton Lovol with the title, “FotonLovol wheel loader dancing.” This video was uploaded in 2016.

Taking all these as clues, with the help of keyword searches, we looked for the viral video and found its longer version on another YouTube channel with a title written in Mongolian language that reads, “Dance loader LOVOL at the Bauma exhibition.” A few seconds into the video, one can see the exact contents of the viral clip.

advertisement

Bauma is an international trade fair for construction machinery, building material machines, mining machines, and construction vehicles. The viral video is from the 2016 fair in Shanghai. The promotional video of the fair was uploaded on their YouTube channel in 2016 and can be seen here.

Hence, it is clear that an old video of a bulldozer stunt at a Chinese trade fair has gone viral as that of people celebrating BJP’s victory in UP.