Amid large-scale attacks on Hindu temples and properties in Bangladesh, a video of a man smashing an idol inside a temple is circulating on social media with the claim that yet another place of worship for minorities has been vandalised in the country, this time in the capital city of Dhaka.

Several Facebook users posted the video of a Bengali news clip. After the anchor reads out the intro, a Bengali voiceover narrates the story and shows CCTV footage of a man entering a temple.

advertisement

The man stands in front of the idol for some time and then barges into the sanctum sanctorum. The news clip shows the sound bite of the temple priest who claims that the man had vandalised the Goddess Kali idol inside the temple.

The caption in Bengali along with the video translates to, “Yet another Hindu temple attacked, this time in Dhaka’s Mirpur. A miscreant named Rasedul Hassan entered the temple pretending to be a Hindu. He then vandalised the temple and smashed the idol.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the incident is over two years old and not part of the ongoing violence in Bangladesh.

The archived version of the post is saved here.

AFWA probe

Using keyword search, we found that the same incident was reported by some news portals of Bangladesh in 2019.

As per these reports, on February 28, 2019, a man introduced himself as Mithun Chakraborty and entered a Kali temple in Mirpur. He told the priest that he wanted to offer prayers as he had exams.

The man stood in front of the idol with folded hands for a few minutes, and then went inside the main temple and vandalised the idol. The temple priest confronted the man and handed him over to the police. The man later revealed that his name was Rasedul Hassan.

The viral clip has an onscreen logo of Bangladesh news channel “Ekattor TV”. We also found the original news clip on its YouTube channel, uploaded on February 28, 2019. The video description gives the same details as to how a miscreant attacked a Hindu temple in Mirpur, Dhaka, pretending to be a Hindu man named Mithun Chakraborty.

As communal tension simmers in Bangladesh, several countries and global organisations, including the United Nations, urged Bangladesh to take necessary steps to ensure the safety of minority Hindus.

Therefore, we can conclude that amid targeted attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh, an old video of idol desecration is being circulated as a recent event.