Since the day the amended Motor Vehicles Act came into effect, several videos of police excesses have gone viral on social media claiming that they are related to traffic checking.

Recently, a video of police manhandling a man in front of a police station has gone viral with the claim that this is from Basti district in Uttar Pradesh and the men in uniform were thrashing a vehicle owner in the name of traffic checking.

advertisement

Facebook page "AjabGajab" posted the video on September 14, 2019, along with a claim in Hindi, which when translated means, "Today on Saturday, police of Gaur thana in the name of traffic checks created terror. Vehicle owner was dragged and thrashed today on 14th by police of Gaur thana in Basti district. Strict action should be taken against these policemen."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The incident is two years old and has nothing to do with traffic checking.

Till the filing of this story, the 25-second video was viewed more than 5,07,000 times and shared over 9,300 times. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Several people have shared it on Twitter as well.

In the video, a few policemen are seen dragging and thrashing a man in front of a police station, while onlookers are standing around. A woman's voice can also be heard in the background.

When the man is taken inside the police station campus, one of the cops questioned the person who was shooting the incident, to which the latter replied he is a reporter. A board with Gaur police station, Basti, can be seen in the background.

With the help of keyword search using a combination of words "Basti man beaten by police" we found a news clip published by "Samachar Plus" on November 14, 2017, with the caption "Horrifying Face of UP Police: Video Cops Beating Man In Basti". The news clip has the same viral video.

According to the news report, the incident took place on November 14, 2017, in Gaur police station in Basti district. The man was in an inebriated state and causing trouble. The same incident was also reported by "Patrika".

"The Times of India" had also uploaded this video on the same day with the same report.

After this video went viral recently, Basti police replied on Twitter clarifying that the incident took place in 2017.

advertisement

They also claimed that this incident has no connection with traffic checking. According to them, policemen seen in the video are wearing winter uniforms, and therefore, it has no relation with the current context of traffic checking.

This incident of police brutality caught on camera had shocked many people and UP police were heavily criticised for this outrageous behavior. But the viral claim connecting this video with traffic checking is misleading.

This claim was earlier debunked by "Factly" as well.