A post is being shared on social media claiming that the NDA has declared Ranjan Gogoi as the Vice Presidential candidate.

Facebook user Vijay Thakker shared Ranjan Gangoi’s picture and wrote, “Judge Shri Ranjan Gogoi ji, who gave the Ayodhya Shri Ram Mandir verdict, has been declared the NDA’s Vice Presidential candidate * Advance congratulations to Gogoi ji .. Jai Shri Ram ..sprinkling salt on the burn, then someone should learn from Modiji…buy a spoonful of Barnaul.”(Translates Hindi)

Fact Check:

To investigate the viral claim, we searched Google through keywords and found a report published on Dainik Jagran on 16 July 2022. According to the report, the Governor of West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankhar has been made the candidate from the NDA side. This decision was taken in the meeting of the BJP Parliamentary Board. After which BJP President JP Nadda announced the name of Jagdeep Dhankhar.

On further investigation we found a tweet of Amit Shah, from his official Twitter account where he was congratulating Jagdeep Dhankhar on being elected as the NDA’s Vice Presidential candidate.

श्री @jdhankhar1 जी को NDA के उपराष्ट्रपति पद का प्रत्याशी चुने जाने पर मुँह मीठा कराकर बधाई दी।



साधारण किसान परिवार में जन्में धनखड़ जी का जीवन जनकल्याण व समाज के उत्थान को समर्पित रहा।



मुझे विश्वास है कि जमीनी समस्याओं पर उनकी समझ व संवैधानिक ज्ञान का देश को बड़ा लाभ मिलेगा। pic.twitter.com/kP1pDBXaPx — Amit Shah (Modi Ka Parivar) (@AmitShah) July 17, 2022

News agency ANI has also shared the pictures of the nominations on its official Twitter handle.

Delhi | Jagdeep Dhankhar files his nomination for the Vice Presidential elections, as the candidate of NDA.



Prime Minister Narendra Modi, HM Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, BJP national president JP Nadda and other BJP leaders present. pic.twitter.com/iBRfuXC0pO — ANI (@ANI) July 18, 2022

Conclusion:

DFRAC found the viral claim of NDA declaring Ranjan Gogoi as the Vice Presidential candidate to be false. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has been made the Vice Presidential candidate from the NDA side and not Ranjan Gogoi.