Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan’s bail plea was rejected on October 8, 2021. According to media reports, Aryan would be lodged at Arthur Road Jail in the quarantine cell for the next 3-5 days as per Covid protocol.

Aryan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on October 3 following a drug bust on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast.

advertisement

In the backdrop of these events, a video has gone viral with the claim that it shows Shah Rukh Khan meeting Aryan post his recent arrest. In the video, the two men can be seen affectionately hugging each other, with one of them closely resembling the Bollywood superstar.

A Twitter user shared this video with the caption, “SRK met with Aryan Khan. #SRK #AryanKhan #ReleaseAryanKhan”

The archived version of this post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video does not show Shah Rukh Khan meeting his son Aryan. Instead, it shows Ibrahim Qadri, a lookalike of Shah Rukh Khan from Gujarat and his friend Gufran Roomi.

YouTube channels like Bollywood city and Eros Zooming also shared this video claiming that it was Shah Rukh Khan’s meeting with Aryan.

AFWA probe

We noticed that several users have commented that the man with a ponytail in the video is Ibrahim Qadri, Shah Rukh’s lookalike. Another person had also shared a screenshot of an Instagram profile ‘@ibrahim_qadri’ in which some footage from the viral video can be seen.

On scanning this Instagram handle ‘@ibrahim_qadri’, we found that the viral video is not there anymore. We contacted Ibrahim Qadri who confirmed to AFWA that the Instagram handle ‘@ibrahim_qadri’ belongs to him and he had posted the video on October 7 on the page. He told us that the video shows him and his friend Gufran Roomi.

However, the Gujarat-based social media influencer had to delete the video after it became viral and Shah Rukh fans began trolling him.

“This video was shot a few days back in Gujarat only. My intention was not to mock anyone. I am a simple entertainer. When I saw that my video is being misinterpreted by many people, I immediately deleted it. As a fan, I love and adore Shah Rukh Khan. Why would I do anything which goes against him?” he said.

Ibrahim Qadri sent us a video of himself in which he can be seen saying that his intention of uploading this video was not to hurt anyone.

Ibrahim’s friend Gufran Roomi - seen with him in the viral video - also posted an Instagram story confirming that the people seen in the viral video are not Shah Rukh and Aryan but Ibrahim Qadri and him.

To sum it up, a video which was posted by actor Shah Rukh Khan’s lookalike Ibrahim Qadri is being falsely interpreted as the Bollywood actor meeting his son Aryan Khan after his arrest.