On July 17, A Hyderabad-bound Indigo flight from Sharjah had to be diverted to Karachi in Pakistan for emergency landing after the pilot reported a technical snag in the engine. This was the second instance of an Indian flight rerouting and making an emergency landing in Karachi in the past few weeks.

Against this backdrop, a video of passengers on a flight chanting ‘Har Har Mahadev’ is being shared on social media with the claim that this was shot inside the aircraft which landed in Karachi.

A Facebook page shared the post with the caption: Big Breaking Sharjah #Hyderabad Indigo Flight emergency landed in Karachi due to technical problem, n this was the second Indian flight to land in #Karachi after two weeks. Passenger chanting Har har mahadev Rafael #BajrangiBhaijaan #Pakistan #VoiceOfIndia #indigoairlines #IndiGoflight #emergencylanding

You can find the post here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the video and found it to be misleading.

We conducted a Reverse Image Search of the keyframes of the video. Our search led us to various social media posts from July 12, 2022, that carried the same video. Many users had posted the same video claiming that the scenes were from the first ever flight from Kolkata to Deoghar, linking the pilgrimage spot Baidyanath Dham to Kolkata.

A Facebook user posted the video and wrote, “As the first flight from Kolkata took off for Deoghar today, the passengers chanted, “Bol Bam”, “Har Har Mahadev”, “Baba Vaidyanath ki jai” and “Jai Shiv”.

The video was shared by many other users across Twitter as well.

After deep diving into our search results, we found a post by 22scope, a local media house of Jharkhand. The page posted a real-time report, from inside the plane, on the first ever flight to Deoghar.

Apart from 22scope, News Nation also presented a report on July 12, 2022, about the Kolkata-Deoghar flight on their YouTube channel.

Finally, we conducted a Google keyword search to confirm the flight details. We found that the Deoghar airport was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 12, 2022, and the first commercial aircraft landed the same day from Kolkata. Media houses like The Times of India, Zee news, Outlook India, covered the event among others.

Therefore, based on our investigation, we can conclusively say that the viral video of passengers chanting ‘Har Har Mahadev’ in an Indigo aircraft from Karachi is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news