A video of a man in a skull cap, attacking a bunch of women with a steel rod, in what appears to be a neighbourhood scuffle, is being shared by many social media users on Twitter with a communal spin. Users claimed that the man, a Muslim, attacked Hindu women after they asked him not to litter in the premises of their house. But Newschecker has found this claim to be misleading.

News outlet Organiser Weekly, associated with the RSS, was among several Facebook users who shared the video claiming to show Muslim man ‘Adbul’ assaulting ‘Hindu women’ after “ they asked him not to throw garbage in front of their house,” in Uttar Pradesh’s Mirzapur.

Links to such posts can be found here, here, here and here.

The same video is doing the rounds on Twitter with some users claiming that the incident took place in Jammu and Kashmir’s Katra.

Links to such tweets can be found here, here, here and here.

Also Read: Viral Claim That ‘Muslim Boy Killed Hindu Girl’ In Uttarakhand Is Misleading, Incident Has No Communal Angle

Fact Check/Verification

To verify the veracity of the claim, we scanned through the comment sections of the tweets associated with the viral video and found a reply by the official handle of Mirzapur police which roughly translate to, “On the basis of complaint received by the plaintiff on 17.01.2022 at Katra police station, the case has been registered in the relevant sections, in which 03 accused/accused have been arrested and action has been taken as per the rules, both the parties belong to the same community.”

This confirmed that the incident took place at Katra in Uttar Pradesh’s Mirzapur and not in Jammu and Kashmir.

We further looked up the official Twitter account of Mirzapur police and found a video by the Additional SP of Mirzapur clarifying that there is no communal angle in the matter and both the parties belonged to the same community. The incident took place on January 16 in the Laldiggi area of Mirzapur district and a dispute had erupted between the parties over throwing of garbage.

Newschecker conducted a keyword search for “Mirzapur dispute over throwing garbage” and found a report by Jagran dated January 17, 2022.

According to the report, a brawl broke out between two parties over throwing garbage in Katra. The dispute escalated and a man attacked a woman with an iron rod. Following which, the woman reached out to police and a case was registered. However, there was no mention of any communal angle in the report.

Conclusion

The viral video claiming to show a Muslim man attacking Hindu women with iron rod over a domestic dispute is misleading. There is no communal angle to the incident and both the parties belong to the same community.

Result: Misleading Content/Partly False

Sources

Official Twitter Account Of Mirzapur Police

Jagran

If you would like us to fact check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 ​or email us at ​checkthis@newschecker.in​. You can also visit the Contact Us​ page and fill the form.