A long letter attributed to Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has gone viral on social media platforms, where the billionaire has purportedly claimed that novel coronavirus has a "spiritual purpose" and is "a great corrector".

The letter goes on to state 14 points which it claims was written by Gates as to the lessons we should learn from Covid-19.

Several Facebook users such as 'Clement Fon' and 'Alejandro Lorenzo' have posted the viral message.

advertisement

The archived version can be seen here.

The Facebook post can be seen here.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the letter to be a hoax. Gates never wrote the letter.

The post is viral on WhatsApp and Facebook.

Claim going viral on Facebook

We looked for recent interactions, interviews and articles written by Gates on Covid-19.

On March 25, 2020, Gates participated in a TED Talk where he spoke about how we should face the pandemic, but nowhere did he say that coronavirus has a "spiritual purpose".

On March 19, 2020, Gates answered people's queries regarding Covid-19 on Reddit.

In the entire Q&A session (https://www.gatesnotes.com/Health/A-coronavirus-AMA), he never said that he prefers to see novel coronavirus as "a great corrector".

Gates also wrote an article titled 'How to Respond to Covid-19' on February 28, 2020.

Even in this article, he has not claimed that novel coronavirus has a "spiritual purpose".

COVID-19 could be a once-in-a-century pandemic, but the good news is that there are steps we can take now to slow its impact and help us respond more effectively when the next epidemic arrives. #COVID19 https://t.co/7alFsXL27h Bill Gates (@BillGates) February 28, 2020

Spanish fact-check website 'Maltidita.es' had contacted Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation regarding the viral letter and confirmed that Bill Gates "was not the author of this letter, nor is he related to it in any way".

There is no evidence which confirms that Bill Gates wrote the viral letter on Covid-19.

India Today Fact Check is part of IFCN Alliance on Covid-19

Also Read | Fact Check: WHO never asked people to avoid bakery items due to coronavirus

Also Read | Fact Check: This viral video of mass graves is not from Italy but from a TV series