A Facebook user named ‘Arshad Ansari’ shared a post on 30 May 2019. The post consists of the photograph of the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia Mohammed Bin Salman. Post, as translated from Hindi, quoted “Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman – If in India, Muslims are forced to chant ‘Jai Shriram’ slogans; then I swear, all the Hindus residing in Saudi Arabia, I will force them to convert to Islam and will also cancel their visa.” As per this post’s claim, Mohammed Bin Salman gave this controversial statement. Let us see what the facts are!

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA:

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

When we first searched Google by using keywords as per the post claim, we did not get any results related to the slogan of Crown Prince Salman and Jai Shri Ram in the public domain.

However, when we entered the key words ‘saudi crown prince reaction on jai shriram’ on YouTube, we found a viral video with states that

of a viral investigation which states that not one of the royal family of Abu Dhabi, but a member of the royal family, In the discourse program, ‘Jai Shriram’ was said that it is not the Sultan of Abu Dhabi but a member of the Royal family said ‘Jai Shree Ram’ in one of the programs held by Morari Bapu. You can watch the video below.

In this search itself, we found that the Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman of Saudi Arabia came to India on February 2019. A video has been uploaded on 20 February 2019 of this visit on PMO India’s official YouTube channel. You can see this video below.

The President’s Office welcomed the Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. The video of this welcome is available on the official YouTube channel of President of India, uploaded on 20 February 2019. You can see this video below.

After this, we searched about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tour of Saudi Arabia on Google. We came to know that in April 2016, Prime Minister Modi went on a tour to Saudi Arabia. During this, a video of Modi’s royal reception was uploaded on PMO India’s official YouTube channel in April 2016. You can see this video below.

Apart from this, we also got a news that on this tour, Prime Minister Modi received the highest civilian honour ‘King Abdulaziz Sash’ award of Saudi Arabia. Zee News uploaded a video showing this news, on 4 April 2016. You can also see this video below.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C2eoKheWLQw

After this, we visited the Indian Embassy’s website and found a publication about the relationship between India and Saudi Arabia. This publication reveals the good relations and business relations between the two countries.

IndianEmbassyLink | ArchivedLink

With these researches, it is clear that India’s links with Saudi Arabia are very good. We did not get any statement made on behalf of Saudi on any religious issue or related to the Muslims of India, due to which the relations between the two countries will sour up.

In such a case, claiming that Muhammad bin Salman said – “If in India, Muslims are forced to chant ‘Jai Shriram’ slogans; then I swear, all the Hindus residing in Saudi Arabia, I will force them to convert to Islam and will also cancel their visa” without any evidence is absolutely unbearable.

This kind of misinformation can lead to confusion among people of both countries. At the same time, there can also be doubts in the minds of Indians living in Saudi. In the context of international relations, those who share such wrong posts should retrospect.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact-checked and confirms that the photograph is being shared in the post with a wrong narrative. We categorize the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased photographs and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.