A video of Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann is being widely shared on social media in which he can be seen dancing on a jeep. The video is being shared with a claim that Mann celebrated this way after becoming the Chief Minister.

The caption reads, “ਮੁੱਖ ਮੰਤਰੀ ਸਾ੍ਹਬ ਜੀ ਏਨਾ ਗੁੱਸਾ ਕਿਹੜੀ ਗੱਲ ਦਾ. ਜੇ ਲੋਕ ਵਿਰੋਧ ਕਰਦੇ ਨੇ ਗੰਦੇ ਇਸ਼ਾਰੇ ਕਿਓ ਕਰਨੇ. ਤੁਸੀ ਹੁਣ ਝੰਡਾ ਅਮਲੀ ਨਹੀ ਤੁਸੀ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਦੇ ਮੁੱਖ ਮੰਤਰੀ ਜੇ ਸੰਜਮ ਤੋ ਕੰਮ ਲਵੋ.”

(English translation: “Chief Minister, why are you so angry? Why make dirty gestures if people protest You are no longer the flag bearer. If you are the Chief Minister of Punjab, exercise restraint”)

The link to the post can be seen here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile did a fact-check and found the claim to be Misleading.

On doing a Google Reverse Image Search with one of the screenshots, we found that the same video was published by Punjabi singer Jassi Jasraj in 2019 with a caption that read, “ਸੌਭਾ ਨੀ ਦਿੰਦੀਆਂ ਇਹ ਗੱਲਾਂ ਭਗਵੰਤ ਮਾਨ ਨੂੰ। ਘਨੌਰ ਕਲਾਂ ਚ ਕੱਲ ਦੀ ਹਰਕਤ ਦੇਖਲੌ ਸਾਮੀ 7 ਵਜੇ ਲੋਕਾ ਨੂੰ ਗਾਲਾਂ ਕੱਡੀਆ ਤੇ ਜਾਦਾ ਹੋਇਆ ਆਪ ਦੇਖੋ ਕਿ ਇਸ਼ਾਰੇ ਕਰ ਗਿਆ……” (English translation: “These things do not give glory to Bhagwant Mann. See tomorrow’s movement in Ghanour Kalan.”)

We also found that a Facebook user also shared a news clip from a Punjabi newspaper on May 19, 2019. According to the report, “Bhagwant Mann played DJ in front of Gurudwara Sahib regardless of the time in Ghanauri Kalan village. He also sang, danced to the songs and made obscene gestures toward the villagers.”

The report also said that he was then the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab President and Lok Sabha candidate from the Sangrur constituency. He did so in order to stop the ongoing protest by villagers.

Bhagwant Mann was sworn in as the Punjab Chief Minister on March 16, 2022, after the party registered a landslide victory in the assembly polls, wresting the state from Congress.

Hence, we can conclude that the viral post is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news