At least 14 people were killed and as many injured in a blast in Pakistan’s Karachi on Saturday. According to reports, the explosion took place in a drain located underneath a private bank near Paracha Chowk in Karachi's Shershah area.

Soon after, several images went viral on social media as from the Karachi blast.

One such post can be seen below.

advertisement

The archived version of similar posts can be seen here, here, here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that all the four images shared in this post are old and not related to the recent blast in Karachi.

AFWA probe

IMAGE 1

A reverse search revealed that the same picture was carried by multiple media reports as from a 2013 bomb explosion in Quetta, the capital of Pakistan’s Balochistan province.

According to a Reuters report, the incident took place at Quetta’s popular Bacha Khan Chowk market. The bomb was planted close to a parked Frontier Corps vehicle and it killed at least 12 people, including a soldier and a child. Over 60 people were injured.

A similar image from the same site was also published by the stock image site Alamy.

IMAGE 2

We found that the second image showing a man being carried by security forces from a blast site is more than a decade old. With the help of a reverse search of the image and appropriate keywords, we found the same photo on NBC News in 2005. According to the report, the image is from a car bomb explosion that took place outside a KFC restaurant in Karachi on November 15, 2005. At least three people were killed and several injured in the blast.

A similar image from the incident was also published by the Associated Press (AP) in November 2015.

IMAGE 3

The third image has been published by media reports as from a 2014 bomb blast in the Clifton neighborhood of Karachi.

Images from the same site were also published on the website of AP. According to AP, the incident happened on April 24, 2014.

IMAGE 4

The fourth image in the post shows a man carrying a child from the site of an explosion. This picture was carried by multiple media outlets in September 2013 with credit to AP. According to reports, the image is from a car bomb explosion that rocked a crowded street in Peshawar, Pakistan on September 29, 2013.

It is hence clear that the images in circulation are old and not related to the December 18, 2021 bomb blast in Karachi.

READ | Fact Check: Vaccination every week to prevent Omicron lockdown? No, it’s satire

WATCH | Fact Check Video: This is not Muslims performing namaz at an Indian highway