India is reeling under a Covid crisis brought about by a second and deadlier wave and accompanied by a shortage of oxygen for critical patients. Amid this, a ‘seven-point exercise video’ claiming to provide lifetime protection against coronavirus is circulating on social media.

In the video, Dr Manish Sharma, chief medical health officer of Gwalior, is seen saying, “My name is Dr Manish Sharma. I am CMHO Gwalior. I request everyone to practise these seven exercises which will boost our immunity and prepare our body to fight against coronavirus. If you do so, you will never have coronavirus infection in life. These are simple exercises which can be done anywhere and anytime. Each exercise is supposed to be done for 30 seconds.”

advertisement

After this, he demonstrates seven different hand exercises. At the end, he concludes by saying, “Do these exercises anywhere, anytime and stay free from corona.”

A Facebook user shared the video with a caption in Hindi which translates to, “Now there’s no need to be scared of corona. Just 30 seconds, seven exercises By CMHO Gwalior Dr Manish ji Sharma.” The archived version can be seen here.

Another Facebook post had garnered around 2 million views till the time of filing this story.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim being made in the viral video is not backed by scientific evidence. The Madhya Pradesh health department has also called the video unverified and misleading.

AFWA probe

We found that the video first went viral in October last year, following which the Madhya Pradesh health department had served a show cause notice to Dr Sharma. In the notice, it was mentioned that the information given in the video is unverified and misleading. Also, it was not in accordance with the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the state government.

The complete notice can be seen on page 76 of the document from the website of the Directorate of Health Services, Madhya Pradesh.

After the video went viral, Dr Sharma had shared a new video, emphasising on the use of masks, social distancing and regular washing of hands to fight the pandemic, as per some media reports.

Health experts have time and again warned people not to fall for such home remedies. As per World Health Organization, scientists around the world are working to develop treatments for Covid-19. India has so far given emergency approvals for Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V vaccines.

According to the National Center for Biotechnology Information, United States, a strong immune system goes a long way in beating the virus. Tailor-made asana practises, dedicated pranayamas, meditation and mantras could provide a broad-spectrum immune build-up in the body so that viral infection could be averted and/or its virulence reduced.

But we did not find any study or report which says that simple hand exercises

can act as a deterrent to Covid-19. We tried to contact Dr Sharma, but he did not respond. The story would be updated as soon as we get a response from him.

advertisement

Thus, it is evident that the seven exercises specified in the viral video do not guarantee protection against coronavirus.

READ | Fact Check: Nebuliser is not a substitute for oxygen cylinder

READ | Fact Check: Truth behind the emotional story of this boy selling masks