Amidst reports of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar migrants fleeing Gujarat reportedly after the rape of a child in Sabarkantha district by a migrant worker, a video is now going viral social media claiming to show the exodus of hundreds of migrants in an extremely crowded train.

The video has the message Gujarat Kand Main Room Malik Bol Raha Hai Room Khali Karo Abhi Aap Log Video Dekh Sakte Hai Kitne Parishan Hai Bhai Log, Kahan Mar Gaye I Love My India Wale (In Gujarat house owners are asking migrants to vacate rooms, you can see in this video how troubled they are. The video had already been shared more than 16,000 times at the time of filing the report.

advertisement

Several social media users are expressing their anguish after watching the video and the message with it.

So is this video being shared online of migrant workers leaving Gujarat? India Today Fact Check found this to be a misleading claim. The video is actually from West Bengal and not from Gujarat.

In the video passengers in large numbers can be seen waiting for the train on the platform. As soon as the train arrives, there is a maddening rush among the passengers to get in. In the video, people can be heard talking in Bengali. A simple Google search of the grab of the video, which is provided in the post itself, shows two results. One of which refers to a YouTube video of Ranaghat station in Nadia district in West Bengal. This video has been uploaded on YouTube by ESEE News on September 24, 2018.

This YouTube video is exactly the same as the one being shared online with a misleading narrative. The caption mentioned that it was recorded on September 22 2018. When we searched for the video using keywords Ranaghat station on Facebook and YouTube we found that several users had posted the same video.

Our local reporter confirmed after talking to railways officials at the station that this actually happened about two weeks ago due to entrance exam of Railways and police on the same day.

Our reporter also sent us images of the station from the same angle which confirms that it is actually the same station.

On the left, a screengrab from the video going viral and on the right, a recent photo sent by our local reporter Biswajit of the Ranaghat station.

Ranaghat comes under Sealdah division of Eastern Railways. Its Chief Public Relation Office Ravi Mahapatra confirmed to us this is the video of Ranghat station. On September 23, 2018, applicants in large numbers had come to give state police examination. This is the video of platform number 2 where Ranaghat-Sealdah local came."

India Today Fact Check Team, therefore, came to a conclusion that the video being shared as depicting exodus of migrant workers from Gujarat is in fact from West Bengal.