Samajwadi party worker Manish Yadav confirmed to us that the man in the viral image feeding cake to Mulayam Singh Yadav’s photo is himself. This photo was captured in Lucknow on Mulayam Singh Yadav’s birthday.

Samajwadi party founder and former UP CM Mulayam Singh Yadav celebrated his 83rd birthday on 22nd November. An image is circulating on social media in this context claiming to show Mulayam Singh Yadav’s son Akhilesh Yadav feeding cake to his father’s framed image, in spite of his father being alive. Users are taking a dig at Akhilesh Yadav who seems to feed cake to his father as if he is dead. The image shows a man feeding cake to the image of Mulayam Singh Yadav.

The caption of the image states, “ओह, अखिलेश अभी से अभ्यास कर रहे वह भी बिना मालार्पण किये, जनता जानती है पहले सार्वजनिक रुप से मंच पर बेइज्जती कर घक्का मुक्की कर मंच से फेक दिया था सत्ता लोभ जो करवाए कम है।”

Tweet Link | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google, whose results led us to the same image published by ANI UP on 22nd of November. The report states that the images show Samajwadi party workers performed a havan and cut a cake on Mulayam Singh Yadav’s birthday at their party office in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. The post contains several other images of this celebration. We can also see the viral image on this post.

The caption of the tweet mentions, “Lucknow: Samajwadi Party (SP) workers perform ‘havan’ and cut a cake at the party office to celebrate party’s founder-patron Mulayam Singh Yadav’s birthday today.”

Lucknow: Samajwadi Party (SP) workers perform 'havan' and cut a cake at the party office to celebrate party's founder-patron Mulayam Singh Yadav's birthday today. pic.twitter.com/dgO9qqFevq — ANI UP/Uttarakhand (@ANINewsUP) November 22, 2021

We found a similar image published by a Samajwadi party worker named Manish Yadav on his twitter account. He wished Mulayam Singh Yadav on his birthday and shared several images of the celebration they did.

Fact Crescendo contacted Samajwadi Party worker, Manish Yadav who confirmed to us that the man feeding cake to the photo is himself. He told us that the party workers celebrated Mulayam Singh Yadav’s birthday and organised a havan for his longevity and good health. Since they could not call a big leader like Mulayam Singh Yadav to their office and offer them sweets, thus they had offered the cake to his photograph.

ALSO READ: Old Photo from Colombia shared as remains of the crashed chopper Carrying CDS General Bipin Rawat

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral image on social media to be False. The man feeding cake to the photograph of Samajwadi party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav is not Akhilesh Yadav, he is a local party worker named Manish Yadav. The image was taken in Lucknow on Mulayam Singh Yadav’s birthday.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)