Amid protests over the Hathras incident, a video of police high-handedness against a woman is viral on social media with the claim that cops in Uttar Pradesh kicked and abused the victim’s mother before burning her body.

The caption of the 25-second video, shot inside a police station, says, “Uttar Pradesh. Before burying the body of the girl in Hadara, the Yogi police detained the family members, including the mother, and beat the mother when she told them that she wanted to see my mole’s (daughter’s) body.”

advertisement

Though Hathras is misspelt as “Hadara” and the user wrote “burying” instead of burning, it is understood that he is referring to the alleged gang rape incident.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. This video from Hamirpur in Uttar Pradesh is a few months old and has no link to the Hathras incident.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using InVID and appropriate keywords, we found the viral video and its grabs were carried in several news reports.

According to a “Live Hindustan” report published on September 29, the incident took place in Hamirpur district of UP a few months back, even though the video became viral recently.

We also found the video in a report by “Dainik Bhaskar”.The report identifies the woman as a vegetable vendor from Ambedkar Nagar who allegedly opened her shop during lockdown.

Hamirpur Superintendent of Police Narendra Kumar Singh was quoted by “The Times of India” as saying that the cop seen in the video is station officer Shyam Pratap. As per the report, the SP has also directed Circle Officer (Sadar) Anurag Singh to probe the matter.

On September 29, the official Twitter handle of Hamirpur Police also confirmed that taking cognizance of the incident, the officer seen in the video has been shifted to the office of the inspector concerned and an inquiry has been ordered against him.

No credible reports say the Hathras victim’s family was detained or taken to a police station on the night of her cremation. Therefore, it is clear that the viral video is not from Hathras, but Hamirpur district in UP, and a few months old.