Farmers can sell their crops to pharma companies. What? Are you serious? These are just the expressions that will pop into your head. Many on social media are in fact mocking Congress president Rahul Gandhi for making this claim at a rally.

A Facebook user called 'Kisan Neta-Raja Hayer' posted a video of the rally, claiming that the Congress chief said farm produce can be sold to pharmaceutical companies.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading.

The claim attached with the video says, "Durbhagyapurna ye bhai sahib hamare desh ke PM ke davedar hain. Dawai bananewali factory main fasal bikwa denge bol raha hai hadd ho gai (Unfortunate, this man is a PM contender of this country. He is saying he will help sell farm produce to pharma companies. This is too much.)"

In the viral video, Rahul can be heard saying, "We will make all efforts to solve the problems of local farmers and establish factories that make medicines around here so that goods can easily be sold to these pharma factories."

The post has been viewed by 1,700 users at the time of filing this story.

A Twitter user commented, "Setting up pharma factories so that farmers can sell vegetables there.. will this be considered fake news @GargiRawat @Nidhi?"

Setting up pharma factories so that farmers can sell vegetables there.. will this be considered fake news @GargiRawat @Nidhi ? https://t.co/BBnBsC4xmv Sonia hai tho commission hai (@Keefarqpaindha) March 11, 2019





When we looked for the video on the Internet, we found Rahul's original speech. Rahul had addressed a rally in Chittorgarh on December 1 last year during the Rajasthan Assembly election. It is mentioned rightly in the viral video too.

In the original speech, Rahul starts with talking about local farm issues and elucidates on establishing a network of food processing units. He then goes on to speak about setting up of pharmaceutical companies. However, he never speaks about selling farm produce to pharma companies.

In fact, Rahul's speech was much praised by the crowd present in the rally. The reason being Chittorgarh is famous for growing opium, celery, isabgol and many such products which are used for making medicines. Dainik Bhaskar had reported about this on December 25, 2018