From jingling bells to glistening treetops and decorated cribs, Christmas is expected to leave a little sparkle wherever it goes. Because why not, it is the merry festival of hope and happiness! Now, if some social media posts are to be believed, India's semi-high speed luxury train, Tejas Express that runs between Mumbai and Goa was completely lit up for Christmas.

advertisement

The claim is circulated along with a 45-second video of a running train illuminated with LEDs.

One such post can be seen below.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. This video shows the “Christmas Train of Lights”, a festival train run during Christmas in South West England.

AFWA probe

The Tejas Express is a semi-high speed fully air-conditioned train with modern onboard facilities introduced by the Indian Railways in 2017.

However, the train seen in the viral video has a steam engine. This gave us the first clue that this train wouldn’t be the Tejas Express.

A reverse search of the viral video's keyframes showed that the same video was uploaded on a verified YouTube channel “SWNS” on December 2, 2021.

According to the description on this channel, the video was captured by Scott Williams, a professional photographer near Paignton, a town on the coast of Tor Bay in Devon, England. The description also says the train featured in the video is the first official run of the “Train of Lights” in 2021.

We further checked Scott Williams' Facebook page and found the same video uploaded on November 24, 2021.

The caption to the video reads: "The Train of Lights" chuffing through Goodrington, Paignton, earlier this evening. It is truly a magical sight watching it pass along the coast all lit up. Hoping to capture a few photos of the train on the countdown to Christmas.

On December 7, Scott also uploaded a few photos of the "Train of Lights” on Facebook.

We also found the same video carried by multiple media outlets in England with credits to Scott.

The "Christmas Train of Lights"

The "Train of Lights" is a special train run annually during Christmas in South West England by Dartmouth Steam Railway and River Board Company. This year the train operates between November 24 and December 30.

A video of the train’s journey uploaded by Dartmouth Steam Railway on its YouTube channel can be seen below. This video as well other images of the “Train of Lights” uploaded on the official website of Dartmouth Steam Railway matches with the train seen in the viral video.

advertisement

Also, we couldn’t find any credible report about the Tejas Express decked up for Christmas.

It is hence clear that the video in question is from England, and not related to Tejas Express.

Also read: Fact Check: No, Pope Francis did not say he will replace the Bible with a new book “Biblia 2000”

Also read: Fact check: Queen Velu Nachiyar from Tamil Nadu wasn't the first Indian ruler to go to war against the British