Though Kerala is not in Cyclone Yaas’s trajectory, heavy rains are expected to continue in the southern state till May 26, and a yellow alert has been issued in seven of its districts.

Now, a video showing water tanks being blown away due to heavy winds is viral on social media with the claim that it shows the massive cyclone situation in Kerala. In the 30-second video, a mini-truck can also be seen dragged by the winds.

advertisement

The archived version of the video can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This is a 2019 video from Dhule in Maharashtra.

AFWA probe

We did a reverse image search of key frames of the video with appropriate keywords and found a longer version of the same video uploaded on the YouTube channel of Hindi daily “Amar Ujala” in 2019.

According to the video description, it shows windy weather due to Cyclone Vayu in the industrial area of Maharashtra’s Dhule district in June 2019. Vayu was a tropical cyclone that caused moderate damage in India in that month. While Gujarat was the worst affected, other parts of the western coast, including Dhule, also experienced strong winds and rain.

In 2019, the same video was carried by several news portals, including AccuWeather, an American media company that provides commercial weather forecasting. All these reports said the video was from Dhule.

India Today’s Maharashtra bureau also confirmed to us that the video is almost two years old and was shot at the compound of a plastic company named “Kings” at the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation area in Dhule district.

Closely observing the clearer version of the viral video shared by “Amar Ujala”, we can see “Kings” written on the white truck and building seen in the video.

Last week, Cyclone Tauktae had caused widespread damage in Kerala. However, Kerala is not in the trajectory of the deep depression over Bay of Bengal that intensified into Cyclone Yaas on May 24 morning.

The central and southern districts of Kerala are still likely to receive heavy rainfall due to the cyclonic storms. But it is clear that the video in question is old and not related to Kerala.