The Union Home Ministry has formed a committee to enquire into the lapses in security arrangements during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to poll-bound Punjab on January 5.

The PM's Ferozepur rally was called off after he got stuck on a flyover for around 20 minutes because the road ahead was blocked by protesters.

In the backdrop of these events, a video of some Sikh bikers raising "Khalistan Zindabad" slogans has gone viral, with users hinting that this happened on the same day and around the same place where PM Modi's convoy was stopped.

advertisement

A Twitter user shared the video with the caption, "Why Did The Congress Government Not Arrest Those Who Raised Slogans Of Khalistan Zindabad Yesterday? #PresidentRuleInPunjab".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is not related to PM Modi's visit to Punjab. The video has been circulating on the Internet at least since December 27, 2021.

AFWA probe

Commenting on the viral claim, one user said the video is from December 26, 2021, when a motorcycle rally was taken out in remembrance of "Chhote Sahibzade" (sons of Guru Gobind Singh) in Sirhind, Punjab.

Using this clue, we searched the Internet with Punjabi keywords and came across several Facebook posts from December 2021. As per the description given in these posts, the video is related to the "Kesari March" organised on the occasion of Shaheedi Jor Mela in Fatehgarh Sahib.

The Shaheedi Jor Mela is held every year from December 25-27 in memory of Guru Gobind Singh's sons Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh who were bricked alive for refusing to accept Islam by then governor of Sirhind Nawab Wazir Khan.

Some YouTubers had also shared the video had also shared the video with the same description in December 2021.

The oldest post with the video that we could find is dated December 27, 2021.

We could not independently verify the video's location or date. However, it is certain that the video in circulation is not related to PM Modi's recent Punjab visit.