Social Media is flooded with videos of a truck carrying Kanwar yatris. The videos are getting viral with the claim that a Muslim man committed suicide by coming in front of a truck full of Kanwar yatris and the police immediately arrested the accused.

Many people on social media are sharing videos with different captions.

Madhu Purnima Kishwar, an Indian academic and a commentator, writes, “Is this true @myogiadityanath This morning in ‘Deoband’ a ‘Muslim’ person dies under the ‘truck’ of ‘Kavadis’, due to which a ruckus has arisen that the ‘Kavadis’ have deliberately killed this person. Started proceedings by registering a case against. (English Translation)

Is this true @myogiadityanath

आज सुबह "देवबन्द" में "कावड़ियों" के "ट्रक" के नीचे एक "मुस्लिम" शख्स की मौत हो जाती हैं जिसको लेकर बवाल खड़ा हो गया कि "कावड़ियों" ने जानबूझ कर इस व्यक्ति को मारा हैं पुलिस ने सभी "कावड़ियों" के खिलाफ केस तुरत दर्ज कर कार्यवाही शुरू कर दी — Madhu Purnima Kishwar (@madhukishwar) July 20, 2022

Another user writes, “After all, why did the dying ‘Muslim’ person choose the truck of ‘Kavadis’ to commit suicide? Was this some well thought out conspiracy?! This morning a ‘Muslim’ person dies under the ‘Truck’ of ‘Kavadis’ in ‘Deoband’ which is (the most vulnerable place)” (English Translation)

https://twitter.com/BharatiyaHeart/status/1549742240452706305?s=20&t=6cZoa5Mwtk13v0qwbb110Q

Fact Check:

To investigate the truth behind the viral video, we found a tweet from Saharanpur police’s official Twitter account that states, “A false news is being spread through certain social media that “a Muslim committed suicide under a truck of kavadis in the morning at police station Deoband”. Saharanpur Police denies this untrue and misleading news.”

Futher, UP Police Fact Check also denied any such incident.

It states, “The matter is related to the year 2017 and necessary legal action has been taken at that time. @saharanpurpol has denied the misleading post.”

Conclusion:

From the above-mentioned tweets, it is clear that an old video from the year 2017 is being viral on social media with the claim of a recent video.

Claim Review: Muslim man committed suicide in front of a truck full of Kanwar yatris truck and the police immediately arrested the accused.

Claimed by: social media users.

Fact Check: Misleading