A massive uproar erupted on social media on Monday over "vandalism" of a memorial, erected in the honour of 26/11 martyr Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan. Pictures of the destroyed plaque did the rounds on Twitter, triggering outcry for restoration and immediate arrest of culprits. The incident was reported as vandalism by several reputed news websites.

As the event unfolded, people started venting out their ire on social media. BJP MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar urged Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy and Deputy CM G Parameshwara to take action into the matter. He tweeted: "Dear @DrParameshwara @hd_kumaraswamy - This is shameful treatmnt of sacrifice of #Namma #Bengaluru braveheart #SandipUnnkkrishnan tht too just a few days bfr 26/11. Urge u promptly restore this bfr 26th n track dwn crimnls bhnd this act."

advertisement Dear @DrParameshwara @hd_kumaraswamy - This is shameful treatmnt of sacrifice of #Namma #Bengaluru braveheart #SandipUnnkkrishnan tht too just a few days bfr 26/11



Urge u promptly restore this bfr 26th n track dwn crimnls bhnd this act.@CPBlr @FlagsOfHonour @Namma_Bengaluru https://t.co/RRN4MtP8gr Rajeev Chandrasekhar (@rajeev_mp) September 17, 2018

Parameshwara was quick to react and asked the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner to take action. He tweeted, "Am shocked to learn about the damage that has been caused to Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan's memorial in Yelahanka. I have asked @BBMPCOMM to ensure that this is set right immediately."

Am shocked to learn about the damage that has been caused to Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan's memorial in Yelahanka. I have asked @BBMPCOMM to ensure that this is set right immediately. https://t.co/VJRxTc0d10 September 17, 2018

India Today Fact Check team unraveled the truth behind the incident, which took place in Bengaluru's Yelahanka on Sunday. We found that it was an accident, rather than a mischief. The person responsible for the damage of the memorial has been identified by the police.

To find out the real story behind the damage of the memorial, our reporter visited the spot and spoke to locals. They said the accident took place when the milk van driver lost control due to brake failure. The driver rammed the vehicle into the memorial while he was taking a turn at the circle.

We then spoke to Bengaluru DCP (north-east) Kala Krishnaswamy, who confirmed the incident saying it was not an act of vandalism but an accident. On the basis of complaints by locals, police have identified the driver as Nanjegowda. His Tata Van (KA 04 B 4138) was impounded. The driver told our reporter that he was taking the van to get the brakes repaired. "When I was near the traffic signal, the brakes failed. I decided to ram the vehicle into the plaque in order to save the lives of a few motorists who were at the signal."

Traffic police have filed a case into the matter.

advertisement

We also reached out to Unnikrishnan's neighbour Uday Kumar NR who had also visited the spot after the incident. Kumar also confirmed that the plaque was damaged by accident and not vandalised. He said immediately after the accident, locals caught hold of the driver and made sure that he would get the plaque repaired. He added, "Major Unnikrishnan was a national hero and nobody will do anything purposely."

The memorial has now been repaired. Following the development, a picture of people paying tribute to the braveheart's memorial after repair was also shared by BJP MP Chandrasekhar.

#Updates We're extremely happy to share with you the picture of newly reconstructed plaque structure at Yelahanka in Bangalore. A strong message has been sent to entire countrymen. Thank you to entire people who raised their voice. Our special thanks to Dy. CM @DrParameshwara pic.twitter.com/2RYMNUnTYr Soldiering (@Soldiering_) September 19, 2018

Major Unnikrishnan sacrificed his life while battling terrorists in the 26/11 attacks at the Taj Mahal hotel in Mumbai in 2008.