Hundreds of mourners lined the streets of Buenos Aires as Diego Maradona's coffin was driven to the football legend's funeral on November 26. ) 60-year-old Maradona died of heart attack on November 25.

While football fans are still grieving his loss, a video of Maradona's alleged funeral procession has gone viral. The video shows a street densely packed with people, waving flags. An announcement can also be heard in the video.

advertisement

The video has been shared by a verified Facebook Page 'Vega Entertainment' with a caption which reads, "Diego Maradona's funeral procession today. He is neither a president nor a prime minister of any country. Who gets so much of love, adulation & respect these days? He will remain immortal in the hearts of football fans."

The archived version of the post (2) Watch | Facebook ) can be seen here

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is old and has nothing to do with Maradona's funeral procession. The video is, in fact, of a rally which took place in October 2019 in support of the former Argentinian President Mauricio Macri.

Apart from Facebook, the video is viral on Twitter as well.

People had mixed feelings about the video. While one user wrote "RIP legend", another commented, "Look at this crowd! Very soon thousands will die due to Covid."

AFWA PROBE

With the help of reverse image search, we found that the viral video is related to a rally which took place in Buenos Aires, Argentina in October 2019. It was organised in support of Mauricio Macri, the then President.

Argentinian media had reported this rally as the most crowded rally of Macri's political career. Although, just a few days after this rally, Macri lost the election ( Argentina election: Centre-left Alberto Fernández wins presidency - BBC News ) to his rival Alberto Fernández.

Using the Invid tool we found an aerial shot of the rally shared in a tweet by Macri posted on October 20, 2019.

On comparing a screenshot of the video with the image shared by Macri, we found several similarities.

We also found a video of the same rally shared by a Twitter user, possibly a Macri supporter, on October 20, 2019. The viral video has close resemblance to this video.

Earlier this year, the same video had gone viral with another claim. AFP had debunked the misleading claim accompanying the video then.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video has no connection to Maradona's funeral procession.