The high-voltage campaign season in Madhya Pradesh has seen political leaders pushing the envelope to get more votes, even if that means giving communal spin to the statement of political rivals.

On Wednesday (November 14), a video of state Congress president Kamal Nath addressing Muslim supporters went viral on social media. Armed with this video clip, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra claimed that it shows the veteran Congress leader telling Muslim supporters that "the party will deal with Hindus once the elections are over".

advertisement

Patra tweeted a 45-second-long video with caption, "Abhi temporary janau pahen rakha hain. Nipat lenge inse baad mein."

The tweet further read, "The 'fancy dress Hindus' are exposed yet again. Kamalnath ji promises the Muslim clerics that the Congress will surely deal with the Hindus after the election. For now the Muslims should stand with the Congress!"

Patra reiterated his charges at a press conference in Delhi on Wednesday.

The India Today Fact Check found that Patra gave a communal spin to Kamal Nath's statement, misquoting him and attributing words, which he did not use.

temporary ... ..



The fancy dress Hindus are exposed yet again ..Kamalnath ji promises the Muslim clerics that the Congress will surely deal with the Hindus after the election ..for now the Muslims should stand with the Congress! pic.twitter.com/sZJmW15h7d Sambit Patra (@sambitswaraj) November 14, 2018





On Wednesday, several Twitter users also pointed out to Patra saying his claims do not match with the contents in the video.

He clearly says BJP se nipat lenge. Why are you misleading? https://t.co/rCxZBfIwmQ vijaita singh (@vijaita) November 14, 2018





Patra called a press conference on the same day, reiterated his allegations and claimed that Kamal Nath was talking about dealing with Hindus and RSS after elections.

The BJP spokesperson said, "In this video what Mr Kamal Nath says in a closed room while addressing the respected Muslim clerics, that don't you worry; we are going to finish off the other community - the RSS, meaning probably the Hindus also after the election we will take care of them. We will see to it ki hum inko nipta dete hai. You don't fall into any kind of trap."

Patra's statements at the press conference were also retweeted by the official handle of the BJP.





However, in the same conference later on, Sambit Patra tried to modify his statement and said "The way Kamal Nath is talking about finishing Hindus and the RSS after the polls is condemnable." (Sangh aur Hinduon ko niptane ki baat jis prakaar se kamal nath ji ne ki hai yeh nindneeye hai, bhatsaneeye hai).

advertisement

According to our correspondent in Bhopal, this video clip of Kamal Nath is months' old, though we could not confirm its provenance. The video clip in circulation also has a green top band with Hindi translation.

In the video, Nath can be seen sitting in a room with a group of Muslims. Looking carefully, we found that he did not talk about "dealing with Hindus" at any point.

He can be heard saying, "Aaj inke RSS voter kya keh rahe hain? RSS ke jo karyakarta hai voh kya keh raha hai, mujhe jankari hai, RSS ke jo log inhone failaye hue hai, main toh Chhindwara ki baat karun, mujhe toh log aa ke bata dete hai. Unke RSS kyunki Nagpur se juda hua hai vahan to unke liye subah aao, raat ko chale jao aur bada aasan hai, voh unka ek hi slogan hai, agar Hindu ko vote deni hai toh Hindu sher Modi ko vote do agar Musalman ko vote deni hai Congress ko vote do. Keval do line, aur koi path padhane nahi jaate yeh inki rajneeti hai aur is main ab sabko bada satark rehna padega aapko uljhane ki koshish karenge, hum nipat lenge inse baad main, per matdan ke din tak aap ko sab kuch sehna padhega."

advertisement

What Nath is saying in Hindi broadly translates to; "People come and tell him about Chhindwara. Since the RSS is based in Nagpur, it is very easy for them. They come in the morning and leave by the night; they just have one slogan: if you want to vote for a Hindu then do it for a lion called Modi and if you want to vote for a Muslim then give it to Congress. They have just two lines, they have nothing else to teach. This is their strategy, we need to be careful about it. They will try to confuse and mislead you. We will deal with them later. But till the time polls are over, you will have to take all this in your stride."

It is important to note that Kamal Nath is only saying he will deal with them later without explicitly saying whom he is referring to. However, it is clear from the context that he is talking about strategy of the BJP, RSS and dealing with them.

advertisement

Patra has given spin to the word "dealing with them" and has drawn his own inference that Kamal Nath meant Hindus.

Patra in his press conference used Hindi words "nipta dena" for Nath's claim, which later the BJP also tweeted.





In fact, the Kamal Nath can be clearly heard using the Hindi word "nipat" and not "nipta" in the video. Though both these words phonetically are similar, they have hugely different connotations in Hindi language. "Nipat lena" means "to deal with" while "nipta dena" is generally used to indicate "to dispose off or finish off".

Nath also held a press conference on Wednesday.

He said and clarified, "It is a three-month-old video in which I have said that our social harmony should remain intact till the date of polling because the BJP through RSS will try to confuse and instigate voters. I am repeating this again. I was warning people sitting there not to be misled. Yes, I said we will deal with them. I meant those who would instigate and divide the people, we will deal with them. The RSS does not represent all the Hindus."

advertisement

This is not for the first time the BJP leader had attempted to do this.

A few days ago, Patra in a press conference also claimed that in its 'Vachan Patra', the Congress had mentioned that it would ban the RSS. The Congress had, in fact, said they would not allow the RSS shakhas in government buildings. Earlier, this month, another leaked video of Kamal Nath went viral in which he could be seen talking about giving tickets even to the tainted candidates if they have win-ability. Then congress had claimed it was a doctored video but could not present any evidence to support their claim.