Suspense over the nail-biting United States poll verdict came to an end on Saturday after Democrat Joe Biden defeated Donald Trump to become the President-elect. The verdict also confirmed that Kamala Harris of Indian and African descent would be the next Vice-President.

Soon after, a picture of Harris consuming meat went viral on social media with the claim that after winning the elections, she had beef in "happiness". Netizens are also commenting that eating beef made Harris, a "half-Brahmin", the enemy of India "by default".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture was taken last year, when Harris was relishing pork at a fair.

Many Facebook users posted the picture and wrote, "After becoming vice president in happiness taking bite of beef The meat eating half brahmin black Vice President. By default India's enemy (beef eater) #KamalaHarris".

While some users commented saying it's her choice what to eat, others criticised Harris, believing the post to be true. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA investigation

Using Google reverse search, we found the viral picture in a report by "Daily Mail", published on August 10, 2019. As per this article, Harris visited the Iowa State Fair where she had grilled pork chops. Iowa is a state in the US. Some other pictures of her having pork were also used in the report.

Harris had also tweeted a video on August 11, 2019, of her enjoying pork. She captioned it, "Finally got my pork chop!"

Finally got my pork chop! pic.twitter.com/3LUSKorixU — Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) August 11, 2019

This video by Harris also annoyed some social media users because after posting it, she tweeted to wish Eid Mubarak on the occasion of Eid al-Adha.

Here, we are not confirming her food preferences, but merely establishing that the viral post is misleading as this picture of Harris is not a recent one and was taken while she was having pork at a fair last year. However, part of the claim on her Brahmin lineage is true as according to reports, her mother Shyamala Gopalan Harris was from the Brahmin community in Tamil Nadu.