Amid the intense Russian-Ukraine war, a dramatic video of airstrikes levelling a multistoried building has gone viral with the claim that it showed Russian missiles razing the Ministry of Defence building in Ukraine.

Several Facebook users shared this video with captions like: “Three missiles, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense building was instantly razed to the ground. Before the Russian troops launched the missile, they did two strange things: 1. Notify foreign reporters to shoot nearby. 2. Notify all people in the building to evacuate. The missile accurately blasted the ground floor and caused the building to collapse, and finally shot the middle. Not an indiscriminate shooting, it is purely to shock Ukraine!”

advertisement

The India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found this video showed Israeli airstrikes razing the Al-Shorouk Tower in Gaza in May 2021. No credible news report at the time of writing this on March 23 confirmed if the Ministry of Defence building in Kyiv was hit by Russian missiles.

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of the InVid tool and reverse image search, we found that the same video has been on the internet since May 2021. We found the video uploaded to Daily Motion in May 2021 as an Israeli bombing in Gaza.

The same video was posted by the verified Twitter handle of ABC News on May 14, 2021. The tweet said, “Video shows the moment an Israeli airstrike hit and levelled the 14-story Al-Shorouk Tower in Gaza amid an escalating conflict between Israel and Hamas.”

Video shows the moment an Israeli airstrike hit and leveled the 14-story Al-Shorouk Tower in Gaza amid an escalating conflict between Israel and Hamas. https://t.co/Zwdwp29nE2 pic.twitter.com/O3xPEoCR20 — ABC News (@ABC) May 13, 2021

Several international media outlets reported this incident.

According to media reports, the Al-Shorouk Tower, a major media hub in one of Gaza’s busiest neighbourhoods collapsed after being hit by the missiles during airstrikes carried out by Israel Defence Force (IDF) in May 2021.

As per the news reports, it was the third Gaza building destroyed during the conflict, as Israel struck three tower blocks in the heart of Gaza City in 24 hours.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video shows an old Israeli airstrike in Gaza and it is not related to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine crisis.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena)