The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 26 quizzed actor Deepika Padukone in the Bollywood drugs case after her name reportedly emerged in several drug-related WhatsApp chats.

On social media, many users are sharing an image of Deepika in a black t-shirt on which it is written "I STAND WITH INDIAN FARMERS". Netizens say this is how she appeared before NCB for questioning. Various farmers' unions have been protesting against the Centre's recent agriculture reform bills.

advertisement

Facebook user "Rajiv Tyagi" posted the picture and wrote, "When you report for questioning to the NCB, because you stood in solidarity with JNU... and carry swag on your T-shirt..."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. Not only is the image old and photoshopped, but Deepika appeared before NCB on September 26 in a palazzo suit.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we found the viral picture in several news articles from 2018. However, in these pictures, Deepika is seen in a plain black t-shirt without any text printed on it.

On March 20, 2018, "The Indian Express" carried the uncropped version of the picture in its entertainment gallery. According to the caption, the actor was coming out of an airport when the picture was clicked.

Similar pictures were also published by entertainment website "Bollywood Hungama" and image sharing service "Pinterest".

Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh were summoned by the NCB in connection with the Bollywood drug case.

Deepika arrived at the NCB guesthouse in Mumbai's Colaba around 9:45 am on September 26 in a palazzo suit. Multiple media houses have shared pictures and videos of the same.

Some related news reports can be seen here and here.

Therefore, the claim that Deepika appeared before NCB in a t-shirt with a message supporting protesting farmers is false. Not only is the picture old, but it is also photoshopped.