A passage being shared widely on Social Media platforms claims that McDonald’s burgers are unfit for human consumption. The message attributes the statement who Celebrity chef Jamie Oliver who has reportedly proved that the food they sell is not fit to be ingested as it is highly toxic due to the use of bacteria-killing ammonium hydroxide to “wash” the meat.

Here’s the complete message:

“McDonald’s loses the legal battle with chef Jamie Oliver, who proved that the food they sell is not fit to be ingested because it is highly toxic.

Chef Jamie Oliver has won a battle against the world’s largest junk food chain. Oliver proving how burgers are made.

According to Oliver, the fat parts of meat are “washed” with ammoniac hydrogen and then used in the packaging of the meat “cake” to fill the burger. Before this process, according to the presenter, already this meat was not suitable for human consumption.

Oliver, a radical activist chef, who has waged a war against the food industry, says: We’re talking about meat that would be sold as dog food and after this process it’s served to humans. In addition to the quality of meat, ammonium acid is harmful to health. Oliver says this: “The process of the pink crap”.

What sane human being would put a piece of meat soaked in ammonium hydrogen in the mouth of a child?

In another of his initiatives Oliver has demonstrated how chicken nuggets are made: after selecting the “best parts”, the rest: fat, skin, cartilage, visuals, bones, head, legs, are subjected to a mec split smoothie canica – it’s the euphemism that engineers use in food, and then that blood pink paste is deodorant, bleached, re-refreshed and repainted, dipped in flour and fried melcocha, this is left in usually partially hydrogenated oils, that is, toxins.

The food industry uses ammonium hydrogen as an anti-microbial agent, which allowed McDonald’s to use meat in its burgers, which is not suitable for human consumption.

But even more disturbing is the situation that these substances based on ammonium hydrogen are considered ‘lawful components in the production process’ in the food industry with the blessings of health authorities worldwide. So consumers will never be able to discover what substances they put in our food.

PLEASE STOP FEEDING YOUR KIDS THIS FAKE FOOD because NOW YOU KNOW.

The same message was forwarded to Fact Crescendo on it’s 24×7 WhatsApp Tipline- Factline, 904 905 3770 with a request to verify the authenticity of the informtion. Archived Link | Archived Link

We found that the information in the message has been shared with Missing Context. Here’s the Fact Check:

FACT CHECK METHODOLOGY

We checked McDonald’s official website and social media accounts and came across a November 2014 statement on McDonald’s official Twitter handle that addresses the claim:

Following this, we also saw a reply on the same controversy in the FAQ section of McDonald’s official website:

Screenshot, MCDonalds FAQ

McDonalds Website

We saw a news report that states McDonald’s and other restaurant chains stopped using the product in the same year that Oliver had begun the controversy, in 2011. Read here for details: Food Safety News

We found a Fact Check of the same message by Fact Checker Snopes which states “The public controversy over the widespread use of ammoniated beef (which McDonald’s describes as “safe,” as you may have noted above) actually took off in 2009, when the New York Times ran an article questioning the safety of the product. At that time it could be found in “a majority of the hamburger sold nationwide,” the Times reported, including that used in school lunch programs. Despite being deemed safe by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and effective at curbing bacterial growth by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), evidence had come to light that E. coli and salmonella contamination was found at some of the plants that produced the ammoniated lean beef trimmings. The USDA promised closer oversight.”

The controversy began when the Celebrity Chef Jamie Oliver who promotes healthy eating, criticized the use of ammonia-processed beef in an April 2011 episode of his television show Jamie Oliver’s Food Revolution. Reports say, however, that despite him questioning the quality of the food at McDonalds, he did not make a scientific or nutritional case for the end-product being “unfit for human consumption.

CONCLUSION

The claim that celebrity chef Jamie Oliver has proven that McDonalds uses toxic materials like ammoniated lean beef trimmings in its food is outdated. Oliver’s media campaign against the use of ammoniated beef took place in 2011, and McDonald’s and other restaurant chains announced that they have stopped using the product later that same year. The message may mislead social media users with outdated information.