This video does not show Naga Sadhus out on the streets in support of Nupur Sharma. The video dates back to the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar in 2021.

As Islamic countries condemned former BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma’s recent comments on Prophet Muhammad, a video is widely circulating on social media.

The video showing a crowd of Naga Sadhu marching on the streets is widely circulating on social media. The video is claimed to be of a rally by Naga Sadhus in support of Nupur Sharma.

The caption of the video states, “Naga Sadhus are also in support of Nupur Sharma. Imagine that scene where 18 lakh Naga Sadhu come down on the streets together.”

(Hindi: नागा साधु भी नुपुर शर्मा के साथ हैं| कल्पना करिये उस अद्भुत दृश्य का जब “18 लाख” नागा साधु सडक पर उतरेंगे| जय जय श्री राम)

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check–

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on YouTube, whose results led us to a longer version of the viral video posted on 7 April 2021. According to the caption of the video, it is from Haridwar during Kumbh Mela 2021. The video shows Naga Sadhus walking for the Shahi snan.

We found a 4 minute-long version of the video on a Facebook Page named Kumbh Mela 2021, Haridwar. The video was posted on 11 March 2021 whose caption stated that this was the first Shahi snan.

We compared the location of the viral video and the Facebook video and found that it was shot at the exact same location.

Next, we geolocated the shops that can be seen beside this temple that you can watch here and here. We found that the video was shot on Jwalapur Railway Station road, Birla Ghat in Haridwar. Below you can see a comparison between the shops seen in the viral video and the images available on Google Maps.

Thus, it is clear that the viral video is from Haridwar, Uttarakhand shot during the Kumbh Mela in 2021. The video has no relation with Nupur Sharma’s comment.

Are the Hindu seers supporting Nupur Sharma?

We found that there are several news reports that state that several Hindu saints have come forward in support of Nupur Sharma. Hindu saints attending Dharma Parishad in Kashi stood firm with Nupur Sharma. You can read relevant news reports here and here.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the video to be False. The viral video shows the first Shahi snan during the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar in 2021. The video has no relation with Nupur Sharma’s comment. This video does not show Naga Sadhus out on the streets in support of Nupur Sharma.