Communal violence broke out at Telinipara in Hooghly district of West Bengal recently, following which Section 144 was imposed and Internet snapped.

Amid this, a set of pictures of injured people and burning houses is going viral on social media with the claim that this was how Dalit Hindus were beaten up and their homes set ablaze in the riots.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.



India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the pictures to be misleading. The viral pictures are from an incident of anti-Hindu violence in Pakistan and not Bengal’s Telinipara.

The post has been widely shared on Facebook with the misleading claim.

AFWA investigation

With the help of reverse image search, we could trace the source of the viral pictures.

These pictures of violence have been circulating recently on several chat groups related to Hindu minorities in Pakistan. Some claimed the incident took place in Balochistan, while others say it is from Punjab in Pakistan.

A Twitter account called Voice of Pakistan Minority posted graphic images of a man and woman with injuries and in torn clothes. The caption says: “Once again attack on #Hindu community, Gulab and his wife were attacked by neighborhood goons in Rahimyar khan, Punjab. His wife was sexually assaulted in front of Public. Shame on you people who are torturing minorities in #Pakistan.”

Two of these pictures were used in the viral post.

This incident was also reported by the Gulf News on May 12 with the headline, “Pakistan: Hindu couple in rural Punjab brutally attacked, reason unclear”.

A few websites such as JK Now and instant have also reported the incident with the same viral images. These reports claimed that “21 houses with children inside were burned” in Pakistan recently.

We found that in a reply to a tweet by author and lawyer “Rahat Austin”, Punjab Police of Pakistan tweeted, saying this incident at Rahim Yar Khan in Punjab was a land ownership dispute between Hindu and Muslim families and not a hate crime.

. — Punjab Police Official (@OfficialDPRPP) May 11, 2020

According to reports, the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) has recently said that both Hindu and Christian communities in Sindh and Punjab continue to face forced conversions and violence in Pakistan.

Hence, it is confirmed that the viral pictures of violence are not from Telinipara in West Bengal’s Hooghly district but from an incident of anti-Hindu violence in Pakistan.