A video has been shared on social media. Users sharing this video are claiming that Narendra Modi’s victory has been celebrated in Balochistan, Pakistan. Social media users claim that Pakistanis living in Balochistan are hopeful that after Modi becomes PM, Balochis will get freedom from Pakistan.

Further, in the video people are celebrating with the BJP flag. In this video Muslim women wearing burqas. Meanwhile, sharing this video, Professor S. Venugopalan wrote- “ Modi’s victory is celebrated across the border who need his help in finding fresh breath. Behold you guys! Amit Shaw ji will take care of your concerns.”

Fact Check:

To verify the veracity of the video, we did a Google search for news related to it. But we did not get any news related to celebration of BJP’s victory in Balochistan. After this we started investigating the video and it came to light that this video is from during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.

We found this video posted on the Twitter account of BJP leader Sophie Yusuf. This video of Sophie Yusuf was posted on 30 March 2019. According to the post, when he was going to file his nomination from Anantnag seat in Jammu and Kashmir, his supporters raised this slogan.

At the same time, this video has been shared on the official Twitter handle of Jammu and Kashmir BJP. was also shared with This post reads- “ #PhirEkBaarModiSarkar Modi Modi in Anantnag, Amid sloganeering BJP’s Anantnag Parliamentary Constituency candidate Sh. Sofi Yousuf accompanied by thousand of supporters including women folk files nomination paper in Anantnag.”

Conclusion:

Our fact check revealed that the video is not from Pakistan’s Balochistan but India’s Jammu and Kashmir and the people celebrating with the BJP flag are not Pakistanis but Indians. Hence the claim being made by social media users is false and misleading.

Claim- Celebration of Modi’s victory in Pakistan’s Balochistan

Claimant- Professor S. Venugopalan and other social media users.

Fact Check – Misleading