Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his kids have been in isolation since his wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau tested positive for COVID-19 on March 12 after returning from London.

Meanwhile, a video of a hospitalised woman is going viral on social media with the claim that this is the wife of the Canadian PM, who has been infected with the coronavirus.

advertisement

In the two-minute video, the woman is seen describing her medical condition in ICU and warning people not to take chances. She also said that she can’t breathe without medical equipments, which are seen in the viral video.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be false. The woman seen in the video is not the wife of Justin Trudeau but a COVID-19 patient from London.

The video is being shared like wildfire on social media. The caption of the viral video says, The Canadian PM's wife. For people who are still not taking it seriously.

With the help of keywords, we found several news reports regarding the video.

A report by "Daily Mail" says it is the video of 39-year-old Tara Jane Langston who was diagnosed with COVID-19 on March 15. Tara made this video with her phone in the intensive care unit at Hillingdon Hospital in London, pleading others to take the deadly coronavirus seriously.

As per "Business Insider", since this video was made, Tara has recovered partially and has been moved out of ICU.

Some of Tara's friends have also posted this video on Facebook.

On March 19, Justin Trudeau said in a tweet that his wife is better and they are working hard to slow down the spread of COVID-19. As a precautionary measure, the Canadian PM is also under the isolation period of 14 days after his wife tested positive for coronavirus.

Therefore, it is clear that the video of a COVID-19 patient from London is being passed off as the wife of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.

Also read: Fact Check: Fake WHO's warning of lockdown in India goes viral

ALSO WATCH| We need to practice social distancing: Health ministry