The government has arranged for doctors and other staff of designated hospitals dealing with Covid-19 cases to stay in hotels so that their families do not come in contact with the disease.

In this context, a video is going viral on social media in which a woman claims that the Delhi government, which was paying for the doctors' hotels stay, won't be doing so any further. The woman, wearing medical gear, says she works in Delhi's Rao Tularam Memorial Hospital.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that there is no truth in the claim. In fact, the Rao Tularam Memorial Hospital is not even among Delhi's nine designated hospitals to treat coronavirus cases. This hospital does not have any coronavirus patient. It is not even an isolation centre for suspected cases.

Several Facebook users and pages such as "Bhakt Namo Ka" have shared the video with a caption in Hindi which translates to, "Kejriwal's new order says doctors on corona duty have to pay their own hotel bills. This man has turned on his promise again. He has money to pay the salaries of maulvis"

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

In the viral video, a woman wearing a mask and headgear as worn by hospital staff says she is posted in Rao Tularam Memorial Hospital. She says, "We have received orders to vacate the hotel. We have been posted here since 16th. We were adjusting somehow, but now, where will our families go?"

The woman claims there are many patients in the hospital who are coronavirus positive and questions as to why the safety of doctors' families is not being considered.

AFWA investigation

To probe the allegations, AFWA first searched the Delhi government website for the list of corona-designated hospitals. We found an order dated March 31, which said there were five designated hospitals in the state to deal with Covid cases. Right now, the number has increased to nine, which can be seen in the daily bulletin issued by the state government. None of these orders or bulletins has the name of Rao Tularam Memorial Hospital.

In fact, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain's advisor Shaleen Mitra had recently tweeted on the matter. "Rao Tula Raam hospital is neither a COVID hospital nor a quarantine centre and No Doctor/Staff of the hospital is on COVID Duty. Hence this doesn't seem to be a genuine complaint," he had said.

We reached out to Mitra and he said, "Since Rao Tularam Memorial Hospital was never a designated hospital for treating Covid-19 patients, therefore, arranging for the stay of doctors and other staff in hotels from this hospital and payment of their bills was not done at any point."

advertisement

"If a patient goes there with symptoms of Covid-19, the hospital has to immediately send the person to a designated hospital for treating Covid-19. Such patients cannot be admitted to Rao Tularam. It is not even a centre to quarantine or isolate patients. On the other hand, the Delhi government is still arranging for the stay of doctors and other hospital staff in hotels and making their bill payments," Mitra added.

On April 20, the Delhi government had issued an order which clearly states that accommodation is being provided to doctors, nurses, paramedics and other medical staff of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, health centres, quarantine centres and even test centres.

Mitra said the Delhi government had also investigated the viral video, but they could not find out the identity of the woman and if she is really posted in the hospital. "The woman in the video has put on a mask and also covered her hair. It is very difficult to identify her with just the eyes and voice," Mitra said.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the Delhi government is still arranging accommodation for doctors and other staff on the frontline in the war against Covid-19. The claim made in the viral video is false.