Controversial model-actor Poonam Pandey is in the news again this time for landing in hospital after being allegedly assaulted by her husband Sam Bombay. Meanwhile, an image of an injured woman lying on a hospital bed is going viral, with netizens identifying her as Pandey.

One such tweet in Hindi accompanying the picture translates to, “This is C-Grade actor Poonam Pandey who often remains the topic of discussion on social media with her vulgar antics. She keeps on making indecent remarks against Hindutva and Hindu Gods and Goddesses. Then, to prove her secularism, she married Shamshad Ali aka Sam Bombay, and now she’s here.”

advertisement

It is true that Pandey’s photoshoots have been controversial. Also, Sam Bombay was arrested recently for assaulting her. But India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is from 2018 and of a different person. This is Arsha, daughter of one Poonam Pandey from Haldwani, Uttarakhand. The two were attacked by robbers.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

Who’s the lady in viral image?

Using reverse search, we found a video of the same woman posted by a YouTuber on September 24, 2018. The title reads, “Poonam pandey | arsha pandey hospital viral video”.

The viral image is a screen grab from this YouTube video. The video shows the injured woman answering some questions on the incident.

Taking this as a clue, with the help of Google customised timeline search, we narrowed down the timeframe from August to October 2018.

Now, we found multiple news articles about the murder of one Poonam Pandey in Haldwani, Uttarakhand.

We also found an article on Poonam’s daughter Arsha on the Jagran website dated September 18, 2018. This article used a similar photo of the same woman who’s seen in the viral image.

As per reports, on August 28, 2018, in a daring robbery attempt at Haldwani’s Gora Padav area, a few robbers barged into the house of a local businessman and killed his 42-year-old wife Poonam Pandey and their pet dog.

The robbers also inflicted heavy injuries on their 19-year-old daughter Arsha, who was later hospitalised in a critical condition.

Actor Poonam Pandey’s rocky marriage

Actor Poonam Pandey who has often hit the headlines for her bold and controversial photoshoots is in the news again for a domestic violence case.

As per news reports, Poonam was admitted in a Mumbai hospital with serious injuries on her head, face and eyes. Police arrested her husband Sam Bombay for allegedly assaulting the actor.

Several news articles have reported that Sam’s real name is Sam Ahmed Bombay. Born in Dubai, Sam is known in Bollywood as a director and producer.

advertisement

Sam Bombay and Poonam Pandey got married in September 2020. This was Sam’s second marriage. However, within a few days of the marriage, Poonam had filed a complaint against Sam for allegedly assaulting, molesting and threatening her.

However, it is clear that the woman in the viral picture is not actor Poonam Pandey but a robbery victim from Haldwani, Uttarakhand.