At a time the world is finally seeing hopes of a Covid-19 vaccine, a message circulating on social media says former United States President Barack Obama has warned Africans not to accept vaccines that will come from America and Europe. The message also claims that Obama has called the vaccine "an evil act white people want to do to Africans".

The viral message that has resurfaced on social media recently has been on Facebook and Twitter since April last year.

advertisement

The message reads, "Barack Obama is asking Africans not to accept the vaccines that will come from America and Europe... Barack Obama: I'll be an accomplice if I don't denounce this evil act white people want to do to Africans, first of all I was born in America but I'm African blood, #NotoVaccine".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that there is no official trace of any such statement by the former US President. In fact, Obama has recently tweeted that getting vaccinated against Covid-19 is "one of the most important things" to do.

The archived versions of the post are saved here, here, here and here.

Obama on Covid-19 vaccine

Since the outbreak of the pandemic, Obama has on several occasions spoken about Covid-19 and the US government's response. However, there is no media report that confirms he has asked Africans to refuse the vaccines from America and Europe.

As per a report by 'Associated Press' from last year, Obama's spokeswoman Katie Hill confirmed that "Obama did not say this and regardless he is pro-vaccination". Hill was reacting to the same rumours about Obama last year.

Many news outlets have reported that former US Presidents Barack Obama, George W Bush and Bill Clinton have said they will take a coronavirus vaccine once one is available and may film it to build confidence in the US about vaccine safety

Recently, in December 2020, Obama had tweeted, " getting vaccinated is one of the most important things we can do."

With COVID cases surging worse than ever, getting vaccinated is one of the most important things we can do. But until the vaccine is widely available, socially distancing and wearing masks will actually save even more lives, and alleviate the pressure on healthcare workers. — Barack Obama (@BarackObama) December 21, 2020

Since there is no official record that Obama has warned Africans against the vaccines, and rather tweeted in favour of a vaccine, it can be said that the viral claim is false.