After Pakistan's semi-final defeat to Australia in the ICC T20 World Cup, Pak all-rounder Hasan Ali was subjected to severe online criticism for dropping a crucial catch by Matthew Wade that allowed Australia's thrilling victory.

In this context, a photo of a house with a broken window started circulating with the claim that Hasan Ali's house was pelted with stones by angry cricket fans in Pakistan. The claim also says security has been tightened at Hasan Ali's residence due to the attack.

advertisement

One such post can be seen below.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false. Hasan Ali's family sources and journalists from Pakistan confirmed to us that the cricketer's house was not attacked. Also, the photo of the house shared with the claim is from Karnataka.

AFWA probe

We couldn't find any credible reports about stone-pelting at Hasan Ali's house.

We then reached out to the family of Hasan Ali's wife, Samiya Hasan Ali, in India. Under the condition of anonymity, a close member of the family confirmed to AFWA that the circulating claim is false and there was no such attack against Hasan Ali's house.

"These are all just rumours. Both Hasan and Samiya are fine. Hasan has already reached Dhaka with the Pakistan cricket team for matches against Bangladesh," the family member confirmed.

The person also clarified that the image of the house circulated along with the claim doesn't belong to the cricketer.

Earlier, Hasan Ali's wife Samiya had put up a story on her Instagram page calling out a fake Twitter handle impersonating her. In the story, Samiya also clarified that the family is safe and neither she nor her husband or daughter received threats from people in Pakistan.

We also checked with a few local reporters in Pakistan regarding the matter. Dismissing the circulating claim, the reporters said Hasan Ali's house is in Gujranwala, a city near Lahore, and in case of any such incident it will be highlighted.

Speaking to AFWA, Imran Gabool, a Lahore-based crime reporter who works with 'The Dawn' newspaper said, "No such incident took place. I have also confirmed with sources from the police. Police have not received any complaints or alerts about attacks at Hasan Ali's house."

Rai Shahnawaz, another Lahore-based journalist who works with Urdu News also dismissed the claim, saying, "I have just checked with Hasan's native village in Gujranwala division of Punjab. Nothing, as claimed in the social media post, has happened."

Image shared with the claim

We did a reverse Google search of the image of the house shared along with the claim and found the same image carried by multiple news reports from Karnataka in October 2021.

advertisement

According to these reports, the house belongs to Pandavapura JDS MLA and former minister C S Puttaraju. In early October, miscreants had pelted stones on several houses and vehicles, including that of C S Puttaraju in Pandavapura city, located in the Mandya district of Karnataka. India Today's Mandya correspondent also confirmed to us that the house in the circulated image belongs to C S Puttaraju.

It is hence clear that the claim that Pakistan cricketer Hasan Ali's house was pelted with stones is false.