More than 50 people died and over 100 were injured in a missile attack on a railway station in Ukraine’s Kramatorsk on April 8. Following this, many shared a video report featuring the BBC logo claiming the Ukraine army was behind the attack.

The purported report claimed that the missile’s serial number was similar to those fired by the Ukrainian army and that when this came to light, the Ukrainian media stopped covering the incident.

advertisement

The video showed footage from the Kramatorsk railway station, where dead bodies could be seen on the ground. It included shots of the missile that was found at the site. Other footage, including that of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, followed.

One person shared the video on Twitter claiming, “Unbelievable! BBC de facto acknowledged that the missile strike at Kramatorsk railway station killing 55 civilians was committed by Ukraine!”

This video went viral amid a propaganda war between the West and Russia that began with the latter’s invasion of Ukraine.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that this video report was not published by the BBC.

AFWA probe

When we checked the website and social media accounts of BBC, we did not find this report.

We, however, found that the BBC issued a statement refuting the video. Its statement said, “We are aware of a fake video with BBC News branding suggesting Ukraine was responsible for last week’s missile attack on Kramatorsk train station. The BBC is taking action to have the video removed. We urge people not to share it and to check stories on the BBC News website.”

We are aware of a fake video with BBC News branding suggesting Ukraine was responsible for last week’s missile attack on Kramatorsk train station. The BBC is taking action to have the video removed. We urge people not to share it and to check stories on the BBC News website. — BBC News Press Team (@BBCNewsPR) April 13, 2022

The BBC’s latest reporting on the attack did not claim Ukraine was behind the missile strike. The report noted, however, that the missile type obtained from Kramatorsk was in the possession of both countries.

“There is evidence that Russia has previously deployed these missiles in the current conflict, although Ukraine also has this weapon in its arsenal. Russia previously denied using it in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine, but these claims are disputed,” a BBC report from April 13 said.

advertisement

Ukraine has blamed Russia for the Kramatorsk attack. Moscow, however, has denied the allegation, claiming that the missile used was Ukrainian.

While the footage from Kramatorsk and that of the missile are real, we have not investigated who was behind the missile attack on the railway station. It is, however, clear that no such report was published by the BBC.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena in Lucknow)