Following the brutal murder of Kanhaiya Lal, the situation in Rajasthan has been tense. Violent protests have even resulted in attacks on police officers. Meanwhile, a video of an injured policeman admitted to a hospital has gone viral on social media with questionable claims.

Those sharing the video claimed that the policeman seen lying on the hospital bed with several injuries was the one who arrested the killers of Kanhaiya Lal. People claimed that this officer was attacked with a sword.

"The nation moving towards Islamisation: The police constable who arrested Kanhaiya Lal's killers was attacked with a sword. A few days ago, he arrested Riyaz and Gaus," said one such post alongside the video.

Archived versions of some similar claims can be seen.

AFWA’s investigation found that the constable in this viral video was not a part of the team that nabbed the alleged killers of Kanhaiya Lal.

AFWA PROBE

We reverse-searched screengrabs from the viral video. This led us to multiple news reports carrying the same image of the injured policeman.

Reports in Dainik Bhaskar and Asianet News published on July 4 mentioned that it was the second attack on cops within a week in the Bhim area of the Rajsamand district in Rajasthan. This is the same region where the alleged killers were arrested.

Per these reports, the name of the injured constable is Bhajay Ram, also known as Bhajay Singh. Last Monday, while he was posted in a market area in Bhim, he was attacked.

An Amar Ujala report stated that the attack took place at the Badnor crossing where a crowd had gathered to protest against the Udaipur murder. There, some miscreants in the crowd allegedly attacked the cop.

However, none of these reports mentioned his role in the arrest of Kanhaiya Lal’s killers. On the contrary, another Bhaskar report quoted Rajsamand SP Sudheer Choudhary who said that this attack was not related to the Udaipur murder case. Per the SP's version, a rumour resulted in such consequences.

To find out if Bhajay Singh played a role in the arrest of the accused duo, AFWA reached out to Sudheer Choudhary. "It was a team effort and collective success. Credit should not be given to any particular person, the whole team of the Bhim police made it possible. However, Bhajay Raam was not involved in the chase after which the accused was arrested," Choudhary told AFWA.

advertisement

For further details, we contacted Gajendra Singh Rathore, the officer in charge of the Bhim police station. He categorically mentioned to AFWA that Bhajay Ram was not a part of the team that chased and arrested the alleged murderers.

Thus, it is safe to conclude that the video of the injured policeman has been shared with misleading claims.