When you are the Prime Minister of the largest democracy in the world, even your birthday becomes a national event. PM Narendra Modi celebrated his 70th birthday on September 17, 2020. While BJP workers across the country held joyous celebrations, several others termed it as “#NationalUnemploymentDay” to raise voice against unemployment and economic crisis in the country.

Amid this, a photograph of a group of Muslim men praying along with an image of PM Modi in the background is viral on social media. It is being said that it is the Islamic sect Tablighi Jamaat celebrating the PM’s birthday inside Nizamuddin Markaz - its global headquarters in Delhi.

advertisement

One of the claims in Hindi translates in English as, “Modi's birthday was celebrated in Nizamuddin Markaz of Tablighi Jamaat. These are the same people who are ashamed to celebrate the Birthday of their prophet.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the image is misleading. Nizamuddin Markaz is temporarily closed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The celebration was conducted outside the Markaz by a BJP leader, Suhaib Qasmi.

Similar claims are also shared on Facebook.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of a keyword search, we found a report on the event by news agency ANI titled, “Delhi's Muslim community celebrates PM Modi's 70 birthday at Nizamuddin Markaz”.

The report mentions how several members of the Muslim community in Delhi celebrated PM Modi’s birthday. It quoted one Maulana Suhaib Qasmi and Firoz Bakht Ahmed, Chancellor of the Maulana Azad National Urdu University in Hyderabad.

We found two Facebook accounts of Suhaib Qasmi, the Maulana quoted in the ANI report.

According to the ‘About’ section on both the Facebook accounts, Qasmi is the National President of Jamaat Ulema e Hind, an organisation of Islamic scholars. He is also a member of the BJP and RSS.

Also, one of his profile pictures show him with BJP National President JP Nadda and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari.

Who celebrated PM Modi’s 70th birthday?

AFWA reached out to Qasmi who told us that he is a BJP National Executive member and is currently the convener of the 'Muslim Rashtriya Manch' which is associated with the RSS. He also added that the celebration happened outside the Nizamuddin Markaz and had in attendance people from various groups.

“It is true that we celebrated PM Modi's birthday on September 17. But it was outside the Nizamuddin Markaz. Many people joined in including those from BJP and RSS. Some people like the Chancellor of the Maulana Azad National Urdu University in Hyderabad also came from outside Delhi. Everyone prayed for PM's good health,” he said.

advertisement

A 4:15 second video of the cake cutting event is also posted by Qasmi on his Facebook account. The video clearly shows the event was held on the street outside the Markaz.

We also spoke to Mujeeb-ur-Rehman, spokesman for the Tablighi Jamaat group for more clarity on the matter. Rehman confirmed that the Markaz has been temporarily closed due to Covid-19 and Tablighi Jamaat did not officially participate in any such birthday celebrations.

“Markaz is temporarily closed as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. Tablighi Jamaat, Nizamuddin did not officially participate in any such cake cutting celebrations as part of the PM’s birthday. Also, we don’t allow celebrations like cake cutting inside the Markaz. We don't even celebrate the birthday of our founder or prophet,” Rehman told AFWA.

Tablighi Jamaat and Nizamuddin Markaz shot to headlines in March 2020. Hundreds of people tested Covid positive after they attended a religious congregation organised by the Jamaat in Nizamuddin Markaz despite Coronavirus warnings by the authorities.

According to reports, Delhi Police arrested 233 Tablighi Jamaat members and 2,361 were evacuated from the Markaz in March. The Union Home Ministry on September 21, 2020 also claimed in Rajya Sabha that this Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Nizamuddin led to the coronavirus infection spreading among 'many' people in the country.