At a time when the novel coronavirus cases are surging globally and the world is desperately looking for a vaccine, a post with a video of Donald Trump claiming that the United States President has announced that the Covid-19 vaccine is ready and will be launched by the pharmaceutical giant Roche by next Sunday has gone viral.

Facebook posts by users such as "Soumya G. G" and "Zafar Ali Mahar" show a video clip of NBC news channel.

advertisement

At the very beginning of the 37-second clip, Trump invites Matt Sause, president and CEO of Roche Diagnostics, North America, on the dais. Sause conveys his thankfulness to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for "rapid approval" for coronavirus tests.

The caption of the Facebook posts read, "Trump announced that Roche Medical Company will launch the vaccine next Sunday, and millions of doses are ready from it !!! The end of the play.!"

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading.

Trump never said that the coronavirus vaccine will be launched by Roche next Sunday. Sause had just thanked FDA for approval for coronavirus tests. The company was given emergency approval for coronavirus tests and not the vaccine.

The post is viral on both Twitter and Facebook.

Claim going viral

The vaccine claim going viral

We found media reports from March 13, 2020, regarding Roche getting emergency approval from FDA for coronavirus tests

On the same day, Roche in a press release announced that FDA has issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for the cobas® SARS-CoV-2 Test. It says this is the "first commercial test for SARS-CoV-2 will enable expedited coronavirus testing to meet urgent medical needs".

We found a longer version of the viral video on YouTube. On March 13, 2020, the official YouTube channel of White House uploaded this video with the caption, "President Trump Holds a News Conference". In the entire press conference, Trump never announced that the coronavirus vaccine will be ready by Sunday.

As per "The Guardian", around 35 companies and institutions are racing to create a vaccine for coronavirus. As per the World Health Organization (WHO), the first vaccine for coronavirus could be ready in 18 months. The director-general of WHO tweeted this on February 12, 2020.

Researchers from around the world are meeting at @WHO for a research & innovation forum on #COVID19. The first vaccine could be ready in 18 months, In the meantime, there's a lot we can do to prevent transmission and prepare for any further spread.https://t.co/7uXYj2KxF3 Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (@DrTedros) February 11, 2020

Therefore, it is clear that the viral post claiming United States President Donald Trump has announced a vaccine for coronavirus by next Sunday is misleading.