Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s brief stopover at Abu Dhabi on his return from Munich on June 28, 2022, a video has started making the rounds on social media with a claim that the Sultan of Arab gifted PM Modi a gold necklace of 170 tolas (1.98kgs).

The video is being shared with the caption: “अरब के सुल्तान ने मा. प्रधानमंत्री नरेंद्र मोदी जी को 170 तोले सोने का हार भेंट किया यह है आज के भारत का सम्मान और आज के भारत की शक्ति..” (English translation: The Sultan of Arabia presented a gold necklace of 170 tolas to Prime Minister Narendra Modi… this is the honour of today’s India and the power of today’s India)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the post, and found the claim to be misleading.

We ran a keyword search on YouTube and found a similar video uploaded by Hindustan Times, on August 24, 2019. The title of the video reads: “PM Modi conferred with UAE’s highest civilian award by Crown Prince”

The description of the video reads: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi was conferred the Order of Zayed — UAE’s highest civilian award — by Crown Prince Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, on Saturday [August 24, 2019]. PM Modi reached Abu Dhabi from Paris on Friday [August 23, 2019], on the second leg of his three-nation tour to France, UAE and Bahrain. In Abu Dhabi, the two leaders discussed measures to improve trade and cultural ties between India and the UAE. PM Modi and Crown Prince Al Nahyan also discussed the “full spectrum of the strong India-UAE partnership”.

The same video was also uploaded by NDTV and The Economic Times in August 2019.

According to a report by The Hindu Business Line, “Prime Minister Modi was honoured with the ‘Order of Zayed’ as a mark of appreciation for his efforts to boost bilateral ties between the two nations.”

The same was also tweeted by the official Twitter handle of PM Modi on August 24, 2019. The pictures were shared with the caption: “Humbled to be conferred the ‘Order of Zayed’ a short while ago. More than an individual, this award is for India’s cultural ethos and is dedicated to 130-crore Indians. I thank the UAE government for this honour.”

Thus, it can be concluded that an old video is being shared with a misleading claim.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news