A picture of an elderly Muslim man being heckled in front of police has gone viral on social media. Facebook user "Shafeeq Bhai" posted the image with a caption saying, "Ye police wala nahi BJP ka kutta hai."

ENGLISH: This is not a policeman but a BJP dog.

India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false.

advertisement

The image neither has any relation with India nor with the BJP. This is a six-year-old picture from an incident in neighboring Bangladesh.

In the viral picture, a man can be seen pulling the beard of an elderly Muslim in front of a policeman. Facebook user "Shafeeq Bhai" asked Muslims to share the picture as much as possible so that the perpetrators are forced to apologise in three days. More than 10,000 users shared the post at the time of filing this report.

A simple reverse image search throws up several articles published on various blogs in Bangladesh, which had carried this picture in 2013. "somewhereinblog.net" published a Bengali article on the incident on February 14, 2013.

The article says that people reacted strongly to the incident where Chhatra League supporters (students' wing of ruling Awami League) in Bangladesh heckled an elderly Muslim man during a protest. The caption, written in Bengali, says the incident took place in Dhaka's Motijheel area.

Another article published in "Talukdershaheb's blog" during the same time in 2013 gave details about the same incident.

This article used the same picture with an English caption that reads, "A young ruling party activist grabs the beard of an alleged Islamist protester as he helps police in the hunt for protesters as reporters and journalists look on bewildered at the aggressive stance of police."

The same incident was reported in several Bengali dailies in February 2013.

Newspapers such as "Amar Desh" and "Naya Diganta" reported that hundreds of people got injured and were arrested during intermittent clashes between Bangladesh Police and supporters of opposition Jamaat-e-Islami.

The conservative Jamaat-e-Islami is an arch rival of the liberal Awami League, led by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina.

The incident was also posted on the Facebook page of Bangladeshi newspaper "Daily Naya Diganta" around the same time.

Another Facebook page, "Breaking news update", posted another picture of the same incident, where photo journalists can be seen in the background.

AFWA, therefore, concludes that the viral claim on Facebook is completely false as the incident never took place in India, but in Bangladesh six years ago.