A heartbreaking image of corpses of dogs dumped allegedly in Gujarat is getting viral on social media. It has been claimed that the stray dogs are being killed in Gujarat ahead of United States President Donald Trump's India visit.

Along with the first lady Melania Trump and his delegation, Donald Trump will be in India for his two-day visit on February 24 and 25. They will cover Ahmedabad in Gujarat, Agra in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.

advertisement

Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Donald Trump are also expected to inaugurate Ahmedabad's Motera cricket stadium at a public reception event on February 24 being named as "Namaste Trump".

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral image is around a year old and is from Telangana's Siddipet where municipality authorities had ordered the slaughter to curb dog menace.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA received a message on the viral photo on its helpline (7370007000). The message with the photo reads: "Street dogs are being killed Gujarat for Trump's visit.........They have the right to life."

We ran a reverse search on the viral image and found that not only the image is around a year-old, but the incident took place in Telangana's Siddipet and not Gujarat.

As per the media reports Siddipet municipality authorities had ordered to kill the street dogs to control their growing population.

The incident came into notice after a video shot by an animal activist surfaced on Twitter.

We also found a thread of tweets of a journalist from Hyderabad, Donita Jose who not only tweeted the video but also followed the case.

The video in the tweet could be disturbing.

Donita also posted the photograph of the team which had shot the video.

Also, I am not the one who shot the video. Im a journalist in Hyderabad. The whole case was handled by team from Siddipet & Hyderabad. I merely reported about it.Pls find the team's pic below. Also missing from pic is @Pravall63315158 who pressurised authorities all through out pic.twitter.com/jKSf8Wl3OA Donita Jose (@DonitaJose) June 25, 2019

According to media reports, four municipal employees were suspended for their alleged involvement in the poisoning of dogs.

Hence, it is clear that the viral image has nothing to do with Gujarat. It is an old photograph from Telangana.