This is not Sidhu Moose Wala’s last interview before he was brutally murdered. The video is a part of a talk show that took place in 2021.

Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala passed away in an attack near Jawaharke village of Mansa district in Punjab on 29 May 2022. According to Punjab Police, Goldy Brar is responsible for the murder of the famous Punjabi singer and Congress leader by firing 30 bullets.

As the demise of this famous Punjabi singer came as a shocker for his fans, a video is circulating on social media as Sidhu Moose Wala’s last interview video before his demise.

The caption of the post states, “Siddhu Moose Wala last video interview.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We stared our investigation by running a keyword search on YouTube including keywords like “Siddhu Moose Wala” and “Sonam Bajwa”. The results led us to the same video published by Zee Punjabi on 28 June 2021. The video shows the 13th Episode of the television show “Dil Diyaan Gallan” which is a Punjabi TV show. Sonam Bajwa who is an Indian model hosted the TV show. We can see Siddhu Moose Wala and Sonam Bajwa wearing the same outfit as seen in the viral video.

The caption of the video states, “EP 13 – Dil Diyaan Gallan – Indian Punjabi TV Show – Zee Punjabi.”

Dil Diyan Gallan is a celebrity chat show, where host Sonam Bajwa engages in a candid conversation with popular celebrities from the Punjabi film and music industry and gets a peek into their personal and professional lives.

The entire episode of 42 minutes is available on Zee 5’s website that you can watch here. The description states, “Host Sonam Bajwa welcomes popular singer, lyricist, rapper and actor Siddhu Moose Wala. She discusses the start of his musical journey and traces back his upbeat discography.”

Next, we searched for Sidhu Moose Wala’s most recent interview; the results led us to an interview between Journalist Kishore Ajwani and Sidhu Moose Wala before the Punjab State Election in 2022 published by News 18 India on their YouTube channel. The interview was premiered on 23 January 2022.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video to be False. The interview seen in the viral video took place in 2021 and Sidhu Moose Wala passed away on 29 May 2022. This makes it clear that the viral video cannot be Moose Wala’s last video interview. The viral video shows the conversation between Sidhu Moose Wala and Sonam Bajwa in 2021.