Pakistani troops clashed with the Baloch Liberation Army (BLA) following two attacks by the insurgent group. While the BLA claimed hundreds of Pakistani defence personnel were killed in the attacks on army posts in Naushki and Panjgur districts, the Pakistani government claimed that the final death toll stands at 20 militants and nine soldiers.

A video was shared on social media claiming that it captured the terrorist organisation shooting down a Pakistani military helicopter in Panjgur. "#Balochistan Exclusive footage of Pak Army helicopter shot down by Balochistan libration Armyfreedom fighters in #Panjgur," one such tweet claimed.

advertisement



India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim to be misleading. The video used in the tweet was shared online at least as early as 2020.

AFWA Probe

The video was of poor quality and was too pixelated to run a keyframe search. But we found a better version of the same video posted as a reply to the tweet by a user who alleged the claim to be wrong.

Posted on November 9, 2020, the tweet read, “Nagorno-Karabakh: Russian helicopter shot down over Armenia. Azerbaijan has admitted to shooting the aircraft down by accident."

We ran a reverse search of the video's keyframes on Yandex and found several posts dating back to November 2020. Most of these were posted by Russian users that claimed what the video showed was a Russian chopper shot down by Azerbaijan.

The video was uploaded on November 10, 2020, on Instagram by “chp.kbr” — a local news page that appears to be from Russia's Nalchik region. "The Azerbaijani Foreign Ministry said that the country's army accidentally shot down a Russian helicopter and apologizes to the Russian side," the English translation of the Russian caption read.



A similar claim was found on another Russian Instagram page called “armiya_rf” that uploaded the video on November 9, 2020. "These frames appeared on the network, eyewitnesses claim that they captured the moment the missile hit the Russian Mi-24," the post on the page with more than 200,000 followers said.



The video was also found published on an independent news website called “bulgarianmilitary.com” with the same claim on November 10, 2020.

We ran a Google keyword search to find out more about the circumstances that led to the incident. Long-standing rivals Armenia and Azerbaijan fought over the control of the Nagorno-Karabakh region for over a month starting in late September 2020. The conflict ended in a decisive Azerbaijani victory on November 10, 2020, who took control of the Armenian-dominated Nagorno-Karabakh.

On November 9, 2020, a Russian Mi-24 military helicopter was mistakenly shot down by Azerbaijan while flying over Armenia. The ill-fated chopper was accompanying a column of Russian troops in Armenia while it was hit by the Azeri missile. Two of the crew died while another sustained injury, reports said. Azerbaijan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs released an apology and offered compensation following the incident.

advertisement

The date of the incident matches the time when most of the Russian handles had published the video on social media. We found the same video on YouTube claiming to be of the shot down Mi-24.



Though not the same one in question, a similar video was found in a report by the Daily Star on November 9, 2020, which showed the burning wreckage of the helicopter.

It is thus clear that the video is not from the recent clashes in Balochistan.