An image is being shared on social media in which actors Chiranjeevi, Akshay Kumar and Manish Paul are seen holding a placard promoting an online trading app. The placard reads “Deposit 20Rs – Daily income 2000Rs”. Newschecker found these images were morphed with the placard replaced with a different text.

The image has been shared by a Facebook page named ‘GO trade-forty-one’. The Facebook bio of the page reads ‘GOTRADE is the fastest growing broker in recent years. We provide a high-tech platform for trading the most popular financial market assets: currency EUR/USD, GBP/USD, cryptocurrency and other assets.’

Newschecker found similar claims on Facebook with similar captions.

Courtesy: Facebook/YadavRaj

Facebook links are available here, here, here & here.

Also Read: US Comedian Sam Hyde’s Images Presented As Shinzo Abe’s Assassin

Fact Check /Verification

We started our investigation by conducting a reverse search on the images on Google and found an article by Lokmat Times titled Akshay Kumar thanked Corona warriors, see photos when translated via Google uploaded on 9th April, 2020. In the article actors, Akshay Kumar and Manish Paul can be seen holding placards which say “#DILSE THANKYOU” which matches the image used in the viral post.

Courtesy: Lokmat Times

Courtesy: Lokmat Times

Actors Akshay Kumar and Manish Paul had posted on their social media handles thanking all the corona warriors including doctors, policemen, nurses along with others for their efforts during the first Covid-19 lockdown.

On further conducting a reverse image search on Google, Newschecker also found an article by Filmy Focus titled Chiranjeevi, the first audience member! Uploaded on 3rd August, 2017. The article contained the same image as the one in the viral image without the placard being morphed.

Courtesy: Filmy Focus

According to the article, the image is from the premiere of the Telugu movie Darsakudu. Chiranjeevi purchased the first ticket, making him the movie’s first spectator. In the image actor Chiranjeevi is seen holding a giant movie ticket. The actor, along with others, had gone to the event for the film’s promotion.

Conclusion

Newschecker’s investigation reveals that morphed images of placards held by actors Chiranjeevi, Akshay Kumar and Manish Paul are being shared along with the caption Deposit 20Rs – Daily income 2000Rs.

Result: Altered Photo/Video

If you would like us to fact check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 ​or email us at ​checkthis@newschecker.in​. You can also visit the Contact Us​ page and fill the form.