Indian National Congress has yet again tasted disappointment in the recent assembly elections in five states. The grand old party received a major setback even in Punjab -- a state where it was in power. Meanwhile, a video of the former party President Rahul Gandhi playing shuttle badminton has gone viral on social media along with the claim that he was seen playing amidst the party's heavy defeat.

advertisement

In the video, Rahul can be seen playing badminton in an indoor court surrounded by a few party leaders, police, and security guards. Rahul's shots are applauded by the crowd in the video.

"After Congress faced humiliation in the five states, Rahul Gandhi was seen playing badminton", quoted a Hindi Facebook page named "Best Hindi News" while sharing this video.

The official Facebook page of 'Punjab Kesari Madhya Pradesh/Chattisgarh' also posted the same video alongside a caption in Hindi that reads, "Rahul Gandhi was seen in a bit relaxed mood after the result of the 5 state assembly elections was declared. The video has gone viral."

Archived versions of these claims can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be not true. Rahul didn't play badminton after the results were announced. This video was shot in Kerala a day before the counting on March 10.

AFWA Probe

With the help of a few relevant keywords, we came across an article published by ABP News. The news report's cover image was a collage of two images of the Congress leader. While Rahul was photographed enjoying ice cream in one, he was holding a badminton racket in the other.

Although the report was published on 10 March 2022, the headline clearly mentioned that the said activities were done by Rahul in Kerala before the poll results were announced.

Further search led us to a YouTube video published by the official channel of Rahul Gandhi on March 9 -- a day before the poll results were declared.

The description of this video explained that he enjoyed a game of badminton at the new indoor stadium at Sullamussalam Arts and Science College Areekode, Ernad, Malappuram.

The official YouTube page of the Indian National Congress also uploaded the same video on March 9.

Thus, it is clear that the video of Rahul Gandhi playing badminton was shot a day before the election results were declared on March 10.