An aerial view of hundreds of tents on an open ground is circulating on social media with the claim that this is how the "world's largest protest" - the farmers' agitation near Delhi's Singhu border - looks like.

The text along with the picture says, "Picture from worlds largest protest, Singhu border, Delhi."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture used is of the 2013 Maha Kumbh Mela at Prayagraj. Also, there is no credible report that says the ongoing farmers' agitation in India is the world's largest.

advertisement

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching the viral image, we found it in a blog on the 2013 Maha Kumbh Mela, which was held in Prayagraj (previously Allahabad) in Uttar Pradesh.

Taking a cue from this, we further searched the Internet and found several similar pictures of the 2013 Maha Kumbh Mela on the stock image site "Alamy". The caption of one such picture reads, "Tents/landscape during Maha Kumbh mela 2013 in Allahabad, India".

According to the image description provided by "Alamy", the photograph was clicked on February 8, 2013, at "Allahabad Sangam Nagri, Bhulai Ka Pura Road, Govindpur, Teliarganj". Here is a comparison between the viral image and the "Alamy" image.

An aerial view of the ongoing farmers' agitation uploaded by "The Lallantop" on its YouTube channel can be seen below.

Attended by millions of devotees, the Maha Kumbh Mela is a Hindu pilgrimage held at one of the four holy destinations in India - Prayagraj, Haridwar, Nashik and Ujjain - every 12 years by rotation. As per news reports, the 2013 Maha Kumbh Mela was attended by nearly 100 million devotees across the globe.

Is this farmers' protest the world's largest?

The ongoing farmers' agitation against the three farm laws is one of the largest protests in recent years. While more and more people are joining the movement, the number of farmers agitating at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders is in thousands.

Some reports also suggest that the ongoing protests are the largest-ever mobilisation of farmers in independent India. However, no credible report states it is the world's biggest.

In 2012, when the Nirbhaya incident shook the nation, citizens poured on to the streets in thousands demanding justice for the young woman who was gang-raped and tortured on a moving bus in the national Capital.

In 2018, thousands of farmers from 24 Indian states marched to Delhi demanding a law for guaranteed minimum support price (MSP) and freedom from debts. In 2019 and the first half of 2020, India witnessed nationwide protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens (NRC).

advertisement

Even internationally, we have had multiple instances of mass mobilisation recently, such as the Hong Kong protests against China, climate strike and Black Lives Matter protests.

Hence, it is clear that the viral image is of the 2013 Maha Kumbh Mela held at Prayagraj that was attended by nearly 100 million people and not of the ongoing farmers' protest. Also, there is no credible report suggesting that the farmer's agitation against the Centre's farm laws is the biggest in the world.