As assembly polls approach Goa, a claim, supporting the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, has gone viral on social media.

Highlighting the achievements of the BJP government in Goa, a few social media users have stated that, “BJP has delivered 40% Reservations for Goans in NIT-Goa. It’s a special exception only for Goa.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the viral claim was misleading. While it is true that 40 percent of seats in NIT Goa are reserved for “home students,” it is, however, no exception.

advertisement



All NITs across the country have seat reservations under Home State Quota as prescribed by the Union Ministry of Education (formerly the Ministry of Human Resource Development).

AFWA PROBE

Reservation in NIT-Goa

While investigating the claim, we first conducted a keyword search to check if any such reservation exists in NIT-Goa.

We found a news report published in May 2017. It stated that until 2016-17, NIT-Goa had a 50 percent reservation for Home State Quota, and that it was jointly shared by Goa along with Dadra Nagar Haveli, Diu and Daman and Lakshadweep.

However, following a demand raised by former chief minister Manohar Parikkar, the criteria was changed. Starting with the 2017-18 session, 40 percent of seats would be reserved exclusively for the students of Goa, and the remaining ten percent would be shared by students from Dadra Nagar Haveli, Diu and Daman, and Lakshadweep.

We then visited the website of Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JOSAA) to verify the current status of this allocation. Every year, the Ministry of Education sets up JOSAA to manage and regulate the joint seat allocation for admissions to 114 institutes for that academic year.

The business rule formulated by JOSAA for the 2021-22 academic year states that NIT-Goa has a reservation of 50 percent seats for the Home State Quota.

It stated that 40 percent of the Home State seats were reserved for students belonging to Goa. The remaining ten percent of the Home State seats are shared by students of Union Territories of Daman and Diu, Dadra Nagar Haveli, and Lakshadweep. However, any vacant Home State seats out of the ten percent mentioned above will be allocated to students from Goa.

Reservation for other NITs

The business rule formulated by JOSAA clearly speaks of Home State seat reservation for other NITs as well.

It states that apart from NIT-Goa and NIT-Srinagar, all NITs in India have 50 percent reservation for Home State Quota.

Like NIT-Goa, NIT-Srinagar also has reservation for more than one state or union territories. A special quota of five percent seats in NIT-Srinagar are reserved for students of Ladakh. Any unfilled seats out of the five percent mentioned above can be filled by the students of Jammu and Kashmir.

advertisement

Students of states or union territories where there are no NITs, can apply for the Home State Quota at other NITs as specified by JOSAA. However, unlike Goa and Srinagar, there is no limit for such reservations.

To further confirm the rule, we got in touch with Dr. Kiran Teeparthi, the associate dean of NIT-Andhra Pradesh.

“Every NIT in India has a 50 percent reservation for home students. Even we have it for NIT-Andhra Pradesh,” Teeparthi, who is an alumnus of NIT-Jamshedpur and NIT-Warangal, told India Today.

What does “home state” mean?

According to the JOSAA, eligible candidates who can apply for Home State quota are those candidates “whose Home State is the same as the state in which the Institute is located”.

To understand the meaning of the criteria, we got in touch with Sumit Kumar Biswas, the Senior Superintendent of NIT-Durgapur.

He explained that Home State Quota does not actually mean the state where the student’s permanent address is located. It is the registered address of the institution from where the student had appeared for their senior secondary exams.

advertisement

“Say, if a student from Nagaland had studied plus two from an institution in Bengal, then he would apply at NIT-Durgapur and not at NIT-Nagaland for Home State Quota,” Biswas explained.

Hence, we can conclude that the viral claim is misleading. Not just NIT-Goa, every NIT in India has seats reserved under Home State Quota.