The recently concluded G7 summit saw leaders of economic superpowers converging at Cornwall in England in their first face-to-face meeting since the pandemic began. The event, held from June 11-13, saw detailed discussions on a range of global issues, including climate change.

However, many social media users are mocking G7 leaders, claiming they attended the climate change discussions on private jets. Two pictures of several parked aircraft are circulating, linking them to the summit. The archived version can be seen here.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the pictures are old and not related to the G7 summit. While the first image shows Boeing 737 MAX aircraft grounded at Seattle in Washington, the second picture is of private jets parked at the Las Vegas airport ahead of a professional boxing match.

Let us talk about these images one by one.

Reverse-searching this picture, we found it is around two years old. The image is of Boeing 737 MAX aircraft parked at the Boeing Field in Seattle, Washington.

It was carried by “Reuters” on July 09, 2019, as part of a photo feature. Part of the picture caption says, “Dozens of grounded Boeing 737 MAX aircraft are seen parked in an aerial photo at Boeing Field in Seattle, Washington.”

Several news reports later carried the picture as file photo and credited it to Reuters.

This picture shows private planes parked at the Las Vegas airport prior to a professional boxing match between undefeated five-division world champion Floyd Mayweather Jr. and eight-division world champion Manny Pacquiao. This match was held on May 2, 2015, at the MGM Grand Garden Arena at Las Vegas, United States.

We found the viral picture in a “Daily Mail” report published on May 3, 2015. The picture was credited to American sports reporter Levan Reid.

On scanning Reid’s Twitter account, we found he had tweeted the picture on May 3, 2015. Six years later, it is being shared as the private jet hangar for G7 leaders.

The amount of private jets at the Las Vegas airport is out of hand. @MayweathervsPac pic.twitter.com/sChygYt0PW — Levan Reid (@LevanReid) May 3, 2015

However, according to news reports, some G7 leaders including UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson did take private jets to reach the summit venue.

G7 is a forum where the world’s most influential and advanced economies come together for close-knit discussions. The seven group members are USA, Canada, Japan, the UK, Germany, France and Italy; the European Union participates as a guest. This year, India, Australia, South Korea and South Africa were also invited.

Most heads of states had arrived in official planes designated for them. Hence, it is clear that two old, unrelated pictures are being circulated, linking them to the G7 summit. AFP had also debunked one of the viral claims recently.