A viral post on social media attributes a quote to Ivanka Trump, wherein she gives the example of the Bihar girl, who cycled 1,200 km during lockdown carrying her injured father, to hit out at those criticising United States President Donald Trump over the Covid-19 crisis in the country.

The viral quote reads: "Liberals who criticize my dad for exposing them to a mild Chinese virus should read about the girl in India who transported her dad 750 miles on her bicycle. Like her, let's not ask what my dad can do for us, let's ask what we can do for my dad."

advertisement

Several Facebook users have posted the message, believing it to be from the US President's daughter and presidential adviser.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral claim to be false. Ivanka did make a separate tweet appreciating the girl from Bihar's Darbhanga district. But the viral message is a meme taken from a parody account.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Fifteen-year-old Jyoti Kumar had hit the headlines in May after she cycled 1,200 kms from Gurugram to Darbhanga in seven days, carrying her injured father during the lockdown.

Ivanka had indeed tweeted about the incident, lauding Jyoti's "endurance & love".

15 yr old Jyoti Kumari, carried her wounded father to their home village on the back of her bicycle covering +1,200 km over 7 days.



This beautiful feat of endurance & love has captured the imagination of the Indian people and the cycling federation! https://t.co/uOgXkHzBPz — Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) May 22, 2020

But the viral message saying, "let's not ask what my dad can do for us, let's ask what we can do for my dad" has been inspired by former US President John F Kennedy's famous speech from 1961, where he said, "Ask not what your country can do for you - ask what you can do for your country."

International fact-check website Snopes had found that the wording of this putative quote reproduced in the viral meme was taken from the Tucker Carlson parody account on Twitter.

IVANKA: "Liberals who criticize my dad for exposing them to a mild Chinese virus should read about the girl in India who transported her dad 750 miles on her bicycle. Like her, let's not ask what my dad can do for us, let's ask what we can do for my dad." https://t.co/MieTLhMyvI — Tucker Carlson (@SuckerCarlson) May 27, 2020

Hence, it is concluded that the viral quote, wherein she gave the example of the Bihar girl who cycled 1,200 kms during lockdown carrying her injured father, to hit out at critics, has been falsely attributed to Ivanka Trump.