As the nation seethes with anger at the Pulwama terror attack, experts are analysing loopholes in security that may have helped the terrorists plan the bombing that claimed the lives of 40 CRPF personnel. The consensus is that interception and checking of the explosive-laden SUV used in the attack would have prevented it.

Was that really because of an order passed by the erstwhile Mehbooba Mufti government that the terror vehicle could not be checked in time? A video clip is being widely shared on social media in which Major General (retd.) GD Bakshi elaborates on how the system of checkposts and barriers on roads in Kashmir was dismantled because of Mehbooba Mufti. In the video, Gen. Bakshi claims that following a firing incident on a checkpost near Srinagar, the army had not only to apologise but former chief minister Mehbooba had also ensured that the jawans involved in the incident went to Tihar jail.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found several discrepancies in Bakshi’s claim. No armymen involved in this incident ever went to Tihar jail.

Gen. Bakshi made the claim during a TV show. Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi also shared the video through her verified Twitter account. Some people shared this clipping on Facebook as well.

Listen to this please. pic.twitter.com/iC8Djq1a7B Kiran Bedi (@thekiranbedi) February 17, 2019





BJP leader Subramanian Swami also claimed that the "army jawans were prosecuted and are still in jail".

Who authorised the prosecution of our army jawans who in 2014 shot at a Maruti car which smashed through three check points without stopping? That person is responsible for this latest SUV to get near the convoy killing 37 CRPF jawans. The army jawans are still in jail Subramanian Swamy (@Swamy39) February 16, 2019





Here’s the English translation of what Bakshi said during the TV show: During the Mehbooba Mufti's rule, there were three army checkposts outside Srinagar. One day, an annoyed Kashmiri man questioned why he was being stopped at the barricades. In a rage, the man crashed the first barrier, then the second one and despite repeated warnings, he did not stop. When he crashed the third barrier, army personnel opened fire and the man died on the spot. This led to huge outrage and protests from locals. Mehbooba Mufti ensured that the soldier who had opened fire was jailed, and he is still in Tihar jail. After this incident, the barriers were removed.

Here are two factual errors in the claim made by Gen. Bakshi.

The incident that Gen. Bakshi and Subramanian Swami are referring to happened on November 3, 2014 at Chattergam in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir. According to a report in The Indian Express five boys were traveling from Chattergam towards Nowgam on a main road around 5.15pm when their car was fired upon by 53 Rashtriya Rifles men. Two of them died in the firing. There are different versions of eyewitnesses, police and army on what preceded the firing at the barricade.

advertisement

But Gen. Bakshi got it wrong when he said the incident happened during Mehbooba’s rule. Omar Abdullah, and not Mehbooba, was the chief minister in November 2014. The PDP came to power in April, 2015 and Mufti Mohammad Sayeed became the chief minister. Mehbooba became the chief minister in April 2016 after her father’s death.

Following the incident, the army had to face widespread protests and violence across the Valley. An FIR (no. 231/14) was filed at the Chadoora police station.

The army also conceded that soldiers of 53 Rashtriya Rifles involved in the incident were at fault. According to media reports, a court of inquiry was initiated against nine soldiers.

However, there is no media report suggesting that these soldiers were convicted and sent to Tihar jail.

A detailed report regarding this in The Quint quotes the top officer in charge at the time, Lt. Gen. (retd.) DS Hooda, saying the claims of security personnel being court-martialed was fake news.

The army sources also confirmed to India Today that the accused were never sent to jail.

We reached out to Gen. Bakshi about the claims that he made during the TV show. He admitted that he was wrong about his claim regarding the armymen languishing in jail. However, he insisted that the PDP government was responsible for relaxing the security checking procedures in the Valley which were earlier being followed.