The crucial no-trust vote against Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan was scheduled to be held in the country’s National Assembly today, April 3. However, the voting was rejected by the deputy speaker, who called it a ‘foreign conspiracy’. Following this, Imran Khan advised the President to dissolve the National Assembly.

Amid this continuing political tension in Pakistan, a video showing ruckus is being circulated on social media with claims that it shows MPs inside the Pakistan National Assembly fighting each other ahead of the no-confidence motion.

advertisement

The caption to the post reads as follows, “Fresh visuals from #Pakistan National Assembly ahead of #NoConfidenceMotion MPs are kicking and punching each other. This is what #ImranKhan gave to Pakistan #PTIGovernment Section 144.”

The archived versions of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. This is a 2021 video from the Sindh Assembly.

AFWA probe

In the video, the logo of the Odisha-based channel ‘Kanak News’ can be seen in the top-right corner.

We did a reverse search of the key frames of the video with appropriate keywords and found a longer version of the same video uploaded on the YouTube channel of Kanak News on March 4, 2021.

As per the headline provided by Kanak News, the video is from Pakistan’s Sindh Assembly.

We further ran a keyword search and found the same video and screenshots from it carried by multiple media organisations from Pakistan and India in March 2021 as from the Sindh assembly.

As per these reports, the video shows a physical brawl between members of Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) and the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) ahead of a Senate election. The fight was over three of the PTI MPs switching to PPP ahead of the Senate election.

The incident was also tweeted by Pak-based journalists on March 2, 2021.

Scenes when three dissident PTI MPAs attended Sindh Assembly ahead of Senate elections pic.twitter.com/sOZigAHqUA — Murtaza Ali Shah (@MurtazaViews) March 2, 2021

No-confidence motion against Imran Khan

About a month back, the Opposition parties in Pakistan submitted a no-confidence motion against Prime Minister Imran Khan in the National Assembly. Following this, a no-trust vote was scheduled to be held in Pakistan’s National assembly on April 3 to decide whether Imran Khan can continue as the PM of Pakistan. However, the motion was rejected by the deputy speaker, who called it a ‘foreign conspiracy’

advertisement

As per the latest reports, the President of Pakistan has dissolved the National Assembly on the advice of Imran Khan. While Imran Khan has asked the people to prepare for fresh elections, the opposition has said they will not leave the Parliament until the rejection of the no-confidence motion and dissolution of assemblies are reversed.

It is however clear that the video in circulation is old and not related to the no-confidence motion.