An image of a Hindi newspaper advertising the Delhi government’s assistance scheme for riot victims is circulating on social media claiming that the Arvind Kejriwal government is providing monetary help only to Muslim victims of the Delhi riots. The viral image shows the word Muslim’ in the top right corner beside the header. It gives the impression that the government is providing monetary help only to Muslim victims.

The caption of the post mentions that, “You will not find a man like him in the whole world. For him Muslims are riot victims and Hindus are rioters.”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google to find a similar image or news report about this aid offered by Delhi’s AAP government. The results led us to the same poster published by AAP’s official Facebook page. The image was posted on 29th February 2020. The caption of the post mentions “Details of compensation to be paid by the Government of Delhi for the riot victims. If you know any riot victims, share with them. In addition, all possible help. There is no religion greater than humanity.”

In the image posted by AAP we can see that the word “Muslim” was digitally edited to mislead people to think that, the aid for riot victims was specific to a particular community.

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Below you can find a comparison image between the viral image on social media and the original image of the poster posted by AAP. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced this assistance scheme on February 27th, 2020, which includes Rs 10 lakh to the kin of deceased and Rs 5 lakh to the families of minors who died during the Delhi violence.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the viral post to be False. The advertisement on social media is digitally altered. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced an assistance scheme the poster for which has been digitally altered to mislead people into thinking that the aid is only being provided to riot victims of the Muslim community. The word “Muslim” has been digitally added.