UK based talent management company PBJ that manages Rowan Atkinson, has confirmed to Fact Crescendo that the actor is healthy and alive.

British actor Rowan Atkinson has carved a special place for himself in the hearts of his fans across the world through his infamous portrayal of hilarious Mr. Bean. The actor-comedian has also starred in movies such as Johnny English that tickled our funny bone. Arguably, Rowan Atkinson is one of the most celebrated comedians across the world. The actor’s death hoax on social media sent shockwaves across the world. Many of his fans paid homage to their beloved Mr. Bean. However, Fact Crescendo found that the actor is alive and healthy.

One of the viral post on social media carrying Rowan Atkinson’s image with the claim that ‘Mr. Bean aka Rowan Sebastian Atkinson has passed away on 22 November 2021’, shown below:

Many users have the same image and posted condolences to their favorite childhood character “Mr. Bean”.

The caption of the viral image mentions, “Rest In peace, Rowan Sebastian “MR. BEAN Atkinson. Born: January 6, 1955- Died: November 22, 2021. RIP sir” (sic)

Facebook Post

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Google to find relevant news reports about Rowan Atkinson. We could not find any relevant news report that corroborated the viral claim.

Rowan Atkinson prefers to stay away from social media. He has stated in many interviews that he does not have account on any social media platform. In the video given below, Atkinson while responding to a question by the host Rachael Ray clarifies that he is not on social media in any form.

Thus, we could not find any official statement from Atkinson.

We also found that the same rumor went viral in 2017 when Mr. Atkinson’s fans and followers posted heartbroken messages online, which turned out to be hoax.

With a keyword search on Google, we found that a company named PBJ Management manages Rowan Atkinson. PBJ Management is an exclusive UK based talent management organization. Fact Crescendo reached out to PBJ Management who confirmed to us that the viral post on social media is a hoax. They told us that Atkinson is healthy and alive in a response to our email.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found that the viral message on social media claiming that the famous English actor Rowan Atkinson has passed away is False. The company that manages Atkinson has confirmed to Fact Crescendo that the viral post is a hoax.