A few weeks back, the Uttar Pradesh government allowed resumption of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya during lockdown. After this news was published in the media, a picture of veteran BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi offering sweets to Prime Minister Narendra Modi began circulating on Facebook and WhatsApp. Users claim Joshi offered sweets to Modi as soon as construction of the Ram temple began in Ayodhya.

advertisement

Several Facebook users posted the viral image along with a caption in Hindi that translates to, "Murli Manohar Joshi ji offering sweets to Hindu hriday samrat Modi ji as soon as the first brick for construction of Ram temple was laid. Kudos to Hindu king Narendra Modi. He has removed the blot of 450 years in just six years. Idol worshippers of Sanatan culture thank you."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The viral picture of Joshi offering sweets to Modi has no connection to the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. This picture was taken on May 24, 2019, when Modi, along with Amit Shah, went to meet Joshi at his Delhi residence after being re-elected as Prime Minister with a thumping majority.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here. Similar content has been shared by multiple Facebook users.

Using reverse image search, we found that the viral picture of Joshi offering sweets to Modi was published by several news websites such as "Jansatta" and "The Hindu" in May last year. Amit Shah is also seen in the uncropped picture.

"The Hindu" article, offering the photo credit to news agency "PTI", captioned the picture, "Sweet tidings: Prime Minister Narendra Modi being offered sweets by BJP veteran Murli Manohar Joshi as party president Amit Shah looks on in New Delhi on Friday."

As per these news reports, after the sweeping victory in the Lok Sabha election, Modi on May 24, 2019, met veteran party leaders Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi at their residences in Delhi.

These pictures and details of these meetings were also published in the website of Narendra Modi on the same day. Union Home minister Amit Shah had also tweeted the same picture on the same day.

It should be noted that resumption of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya was allowed only last month. The viral picture is one year old. Hence, linking this image of Joshi offering sweets to Modi with Ram temple construction is misleading.