It has been three months since TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee was sworn in as the chief minister of West Bengal for the third time. But social media users are still keen to know whether it is possible for a leader to be sworn in as the CM even after losing his/her seat in the election.

Several Facebook users have claimed that before Mamata Banerjee, Morarji Desai (1952; Maharashtra), Tribhuvan Singh (1970; Uttar Pradesh) and Shibu Soren (2009; Jharkhand) become chief ministers even though they lost in the presiding assembly elections.

advertisement

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. While Morarji Desai had won the erstwhile Bombay assembly election in 1952 and was sworn in as the chief minister, Tribhuvan Singh and Shibu Soren had become the chief ministers did not contest the presiding assembly elections of Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand respectively.

Archived versions of posts with similar claims can be found here, here, and here.

Did Desai lose the 1952 assembly election?

We first conducted a keyword search and found media reports claiming that Desai had in fact lost the first general elections held in 1952. But he was elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party and became the Chief Minister of Bombay.

We cross-checked this with the Election Commission of India's report. After conducting another search on the internet, we found an old file of ECI that had statistical information on the 1951 Bombay Assembly Election.

According to the EC reports, Morarji Desai contested the election from the Constituency 7 Bulsar Chikhli constituency. Despite trailing at second position, the ECI report has declared him as the winner. The report also states that there were two seats in this constituency.

After coming across this conflicting report, we carried out research and found out that a system called the "two- member constituency system" was in practice back then.

As per this system, a few selected assembly and parliamentary constituencies could be represented by two members. Following a bill drafted in 1960, this system was abolished in 1961.

About Morarji Desai: Born on February 29, 1896, in Bhadeli village, now in the Bulsar district of Gujarat, Morarji Desai became the prime minister of India on March 24, 1977. He was a freedom fighter who had resigned from government service to join the independence movement. He was part of the Satyagraha and Quit India Movement and was jailed thrice during the freedom struggle.

Did Tribhuvan Singh lose the UP-assembly election before becoming the CM?

The claim in this post states that Tribhuvan Singh became the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh in 1970 after losing the assembly election.

advertisement

A simple keyword search revealed that Singh was sworn in as the chief minister of UP on October 18, 1970, many months after the elections were held in 1969.

So, did Singh lose his seat in the 1969 election?

We found the ECI report on 1969 Uttar Pradesh assembly election which states that Singh did not contest the 1969 assembly election. On the contrary, Singh was a member of Rajya Sabha from January 8, 1965, to April 2, 1976.

After the 1969 UP assembly poll, Chandra Bhanu Gupta became the chief minister. But he had to make way for Chaudhary Charan Singh in just under a year. Charan Singh also lost chief ministership in just seven months. After 17-day spell of President's rule, Tribhuvan Singh was sworn in as chief minister on October 18, 1970. He had to resign as chief minister within six months after he lost the bye-election from Maniram constituency in Gorakhpur district.

About Tribhuvan Singh: Born on August 8, 1904, Tribhuvan Singh completed his graduation from Kashi Vidyapeeth. He was a member of first and second Lok Sabha and even of the lower house of Indian Parliament. He also served as the Union Minister of Industry and Steel and later became the Governor of West Bengal.

advertisement

Did Shibu Soren become Jharkhand CM in 2009 after losing the election?

Assembly election in Jharkhand was held in November-December 2009. The ECI report shows that Shibu Soren did not contest that election.

However, he was sworn-in as the chief minister on December 30, 2009. Prior to this, Soren contested the 2009 Lok Sabha election held in April-May 2010 and won the Dumka constituency seat. He was still an MP when he took oath as the chief minister.

Soren resigned as chief minister within five months, on May 30, 2010, after failing to gain support from both the alliance and oppositions.

About Shubu Soren: Born on January 11, 1944, Soren had become Lok Sabha MP for eight times. Known as "Guruji", he was Jharkhand's chief minister thrice and has also served as the Union Coal Minister.

CONCLUSION

We are yet not sure whether Mamata Banerjee is the only person in India who had become the chief minister after losing the presiding assembly election. However, it is true that Morarji Desai, Tribhuvan Singh and Shibu Soren had not become the chief minister after losing their assembly seats.