On 17 July 2019, a Facebook user named Dr. Ashu Diadi shared a video on Facebook. In this video, few students can be seen chanting slogans while leaving the school. The post mentions that after stepping out of the Anjuman School in Mandsaur, slogans of ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ were raised.

Popular story on social media:

FacebookPost|ArchivedLink

After hearing this video for the first time, it seems that the children are literally saying something like ‘Pakistan Zindabad’. But on hearing it carefully, it is evident that these children are shouting ‘Zindabad Zindabad’ and there is a voice in the background of a man who is shouting ‘Shabbir Saab Zindabad’. Then we searched for the claims made so far on Google by typing the words ‘Pakistan Zindabad rally by school’. You can see results of this search below.

We found a news story published by ‘NewIndia Express’ on 17th July 2019. According to this article, this school is located in Mandsaur disctrict of Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. According to the news, the students of this school are protesting against the removal of their principal. Hence, in support of him, they raised the slogans of ‘Shabbir Saab Zindabad’ ‘Shabbir Saab Zindabad’. Videos of these slogans were spread to mislead people after tampering. It is wrongly said that the students were shouting ‘Pakistan Zindabad’. Click on the link below to read the entire story.

NewindianexpressPost | ArchivedLink

When we searched for ‘Mandsaur’ keyword on Google, we found this news story by NDTV.

In the news broadcast by NDTV aired on July 17th 2019, it is mentioned that at least 30-35 people have been identified by the police as being involved in the spreading of this wrong information with the intent to mislead people. The truth is that the slogans of ‘Shabbir Saab Zindabad’ were raised in a Madhya Pradesh school by the school students in support of their principal. These people changed the slogan from ‘Shabbir Saab Zindabad’ to ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ and made it viral on social media. Read the link below to read the full story.

NDTVIndiaPost | ArchivedLink

Khabar.ndtvPost | ArchivedLink

This clearly shows that in the above said post, the school children are shouting ‘Shabbir Saab Zindabad’, not ‘Pakistan Zindabad’. This video is being widely spread with a false narrative to mislead the people and create unrest and violence. The police has already identified the people who have violated this video with false details and strict action will be taken against them.

Result of investigation: The claim made in the aforementioned post that the school students of Anjuman School in Mandsaur were taught to raise ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ slogan. This is totally false.