A poster of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is going viral on social media. Users sharing this viral poster are making fun of Kejriwal. Actually, in this poster, the name of CM Kejriwal and development work has been written in the text to congratulate the development works of the Delhi government and installing mugs in the open toilet.

Sharing this poster on Twitter, a user named Kangana Ranaut wrote – “When will this person improve.”

https://twitter.com/KanganaR_/status/1552165483880689664?s=20&t=B7jt7shsxTlWlIz9X0DYdg

Fact Check:

To check this graphical poster going viral, we did a reverse image search. During this we found that this poster has already gone viral with a misleading claim. The photoshopped poster was shared from the verified accounts of several BJP leaders. The text on this poster was – “Congratulations! The speed ​​breaker was constructed near Sagarpur Sabzimandi.

Several leaders including BJP leaders Gaurav Bhatia, Charu Pragya and Major Surendra Punia had shared this photoshopped poster.

At the same time, the truth of this poster is that this poster was put on the repair work of a road. The text on this poster was – “Congratulations! Repair work started from Zakhira roundabout to Mundka Rohtak road. This poster was posted by JJP leader Prateek Som on 8 November 2020.

Banners of @ArvindKejriwal at every 15-20 meters.



Congratulations for what? For repair work of road.



Is he a CM or what?



Only advertisement no work pic.twitter.com/GcgkBKdGrL — Prateek som (@Prateeksom2) November 8, 2020

At the same time, the correct poster can also be seen on the official YouTube channel of Aam Aadmi Party, which was uploaded on 6 November 2020. The text on this poster too was- “Congratulations! Repair work of Mundka Rohtak road from Zakhira roundabout has been written.”

Conclusion:

It is clear from our fact check that the claim being made by social media users is fake as Arvind Kejriwal’s congratulatory poster has been photoshopped.

Claim- Kejriwal was congratulated for installing lota in speed breaker and open toilet

Claimant- Social media users

Fact Check – Fake