As the farmers' protest in the national capital entered the third week, an image of people holding a banner with "Free Sharjeel Imam" written on it is being shared on social media. It is being said that the image is from the ongoing farmers' protest at the Delhi-Haryana border.

Jawaharlal Nehru University student Sharjeel Imam was arrested in January 2020 for allegedly delivering inflammatory speeches during the time of Jamia violence and anti-CAA protests.

advertisement

The caption with the viral image reads, "From MSP to FSI (Free Sharjeel Imam) farmers protest has come a long way."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. This image is from an anti-CAA march held in Kerala in February 2020 and not from the ongoing farmers' protest.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA PROBE

With the help of reverse image search, we found the same image shared by a Twitter user on April 15, 2020.

It has been 76 days since Sharjeel Imam is under police custody for just appealing for "Jakka Jaam". After that BJP leaders instigate the violence which resulted into the Delhi pogrom against muslim minorities but unfortunately they are roaming free.#Release_Sharjeel_Imam pic.twitter.com/0Umcrqgkos — Md. Imran Lone ( ) (@ImraanSpeaks) April 15, 2020

On closely observing the viral image, we found the name of Welfare Party of India written on the right-top corner of the white banner. The tricolour flag seen in the image also matched with the flag of the Welfare Party.

We also found a Malayalam text written on the blue colour waiting shed seen on the left side of the image. The text translates to English as "Constructed from the fund of MLA Muraleedharan"

Taking a cue from this we contacted the Kerala unit of the Welfare Party of India. The party's state secretary Sajeed Khalid confirmed to us that the image is from an anti-CAA march conducted by the party in Thiruvananthapuram in February this year.

"This image is from the 'Occupy Raj Bhavan' protest organised by our party in February 2020 against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). The waiting shed seen in the image with the name of MLA K Muraleedharan is right opposite the Thiruvananthapuram Raj Bhavan," Khalid said.

We also found multiple news reports on the 'Occupy Raj Bhavan' protest march organised by the Welfare Party of India. The 30-hour-long protest was inaugurated by Shaheen Bagh leader Asma Khatun.

To mark the Human Rights Day, on December 10, posters of several activists, including Sharjeel Imam, who have been arrested across the country over the past few years were put up by the protesting farmers at Delhi's Tikri border.

However, it is clear that the viral image showing two men holding a banner demanding the release of Sharjeel Imam is from an anti-CAA protest held in Kerala in February 2020 and not from the current farmers' protest in Delhi.