A man dressed in saffron attire and his head shaven as Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and accompanying Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav in his rallies has created a buzz on social media.

Netizens are claiming that the man is none other than the brother of Yogi Adityanath and his name is Asitnath Bisht who is supporting mahagathbandhan’.

advertisement

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim in the viral post is false. The man in the photo is not the brother of Yogi Adityanath.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Facebook users are also sharing pictures of the brother of Yogi Adityanath. The caption with the photo roughly translates: Yogi’s brother Asitnath Bisht is supporting mahagathbandhan. He said he is feeling proud to campaign for Akhilesh Yadav.

On May 4, Akhilesh Yadav had tweeted a couple of images of him walking with this man with the caption: We cannot bring fake God but we bring a baba ji’. He has left Gorakhpur and is telling truth about the government to everyone in the state.





Earlier on Friday (May 3), Akhilesh Yadav also introduced the man as Yodha during his speech at Barabanki and also asked the people in the rally if they recognise the man?

AFWA has found that the man in the viral image is not the brother of Yogi Adityanath. In fact, he is Suresh Thakur Yodha who filed his nomination from Lucknow on Maulik Adhikar Party ticket but his nomination got cancelled.

As per the media reports, Yodha is now supporting the Samajwadi Party.

A few days ago a photo of a chaiwala went viral. It was claimed that the chaiwala man in the picture was the brother of Yogi Adityanath.

When India Today TV reached out to Yogi’s sister Shashi Singh, she who told us that Yogi has three sisters and three brothers Mahendra Mohan Bisht, Manendra Mohan Bisht, and Shailendra Mohan.

We didn’t find any media report mentioning any of Yogi’s brothers supporting the mahagathbandhan. There are many media reports on the lookalike of Yogi Adityanath accompanying Akhilesh Yadav in his election rallies.