Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Saturday claimed at the United Nations (UN) that the stamps released by their postal department months ago titled "atrocities in Indian occupied Kashmir" depict "grave human rights violations".

In a press release, the Pakistan Foreign Office said India cancelled the talks with Pakistan at the UN on "the pretext of stamps".

India Today Fact Check team found that of the twenty pictures used in these stamps by Pakistan, two of them have been falsely attributed.

advertisement

On July 13, 2018, Pakistan's postal department released 20 commemorative postage stamps on the eve of Kashmir Martyrs' Day. This event was reported by the Pakistani media and was also mentioned in a blog. These stamps were sold at Rs 8 each in Pakistani currency.

The Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Delhi spokesperson Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga tweeted that the "picture shared by Pakistan in UNGA is a picture from January 19, 2014 Kashmiri Pandit Exodus Day at the Jantar Mantar."

Pakistan again shared fake pic in #UNGA. Pic shared by Pakistan in #UNGA is Pic of 19 January 2014 Kashmiri Pandit Exodus Day at Jantar Mantar. I was also part of this event pic.twitter.com/CjALsEVG1U Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga (@TajinderBagga) September 30, 2018

India Today Fact Check Team searched for the truth behind the pictures used in the stamps. Taking clue from Bagga's claim, we searched for news related to "Kashmiri Pandits protest at the Jantar Mantar".

We came across several news reports with this particular picture related to the exodus of the Kashmiri Pandits in 1990.

Pakistan used this picture captioned "missing persons".

This picture is also available in Getty images. Getty has given credit to "Hindustan Times" and also mentioned the date of creation as of January 19, 2014.

HT photographer Sonu Mehta confirmed to India Today that he took the picture of protesting Kashmiri Pandits at the Jantar Mantar on January 19, 2014.

Another picture used by Pakistan in one of these stamps show some children sitting and crying with caption "homeless children".

By a simple Internet search with keywords "Kashmiri children sitting and crying", India Today Fact Check team found out the real story behind the image. This picture led us to several news articles which referred to brutal killings of 36 Sikhs at Chattisinghpora near Srinagar in March 2000.

Even BBC reported this incident with the header, "Sikhs massacred in Kashmir", along with the same picture of crying children as used in one of the stamps.

These Sikhs were killed reportedly by the Lashkar terrorists who disguised themselves in Indian Army fatigues. (you can read the full story here)

We found that the photo on the stamp captioned "missing person" is not from Kashmir but from Delhi's Jantar Mantar. The other image in the stamp with "homeless children" of Kashmir is actually the fallout of Lashkar-e-Taiba's attack on the Sikhs in the Valley.

advertisement

So, Pakistan has again misled the world by using fake images on their stamps.

It is also worth mentioning that last year Maleeha Lodhi, Pakistan's ambassador to UN, tried to pass off a picture of a Palestinian girl as pellet gun victim from Kashmir at the UNGA.