A video of a motorcycle accident has gone viral on Facebook with the claim that Tamil actor Ajith Kumar suffered a mishap during shooting.

Facebook pages such as Tamil Kickass and Kollywood Newz have used a 22-second video clip showing a biker falling off the edge of a quay, and along with his motorbike, landing on a boat.

The archived versions of the two posts can be seen here and here.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the post to be misleading. The viral video is a little more than seven years old and not from India.

Tamil actor Ajith recently met with an accident in Chennai on the sets of his film Valimai while shooting a bike sequence. This was reported by several news websites as can be read here and here. But the viral video has no connection to the incident.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID and reverse image search, we found that the same video has been on the Internet since 2012. YouTube channel integraf40 had uploaded the video in 2012 with the caption, Motorbike crashes into boat literally. Epic fail!

One viewer, BenjaminP, commented on the YouTube video that a bike tester of the French magazine Moto Journal met with this accident during the filming of testing a Yamaha FJR 1300 motorbike.

Getting a clue from the viewer’s comment, we used keyword searches and found reports regarding this incident with the same video published in some websites related to motorbikes and cars in 2012.

According to websites such as lematin.ch and TyreSmoke , this freak accident took place when Lolo, a bike tester of French magazine Moto Journal, was filming a testing of Yamaha FJR 1300 at the commune of Saint-Martin-de-Ré in southwestern France.

While taking a turn, the bike’s saddle baggage hit a metal post, sending Lolo and his brand new motorbike down towards the water. The tester experienced minor bruises.

Therefore, we can say that the viral video has no connection to Tamil actor Ajith’s recent accident on the sets.

Also read: Fact Check: Before Trump’s visit, slum image from Mumbai passed off as Gujarat on social media

Also read: Fact Check: Before US president’s visit, a sensational Trump lookalike video goes viral