A vintage picture of three women is circulating on social media with the claim that this was Miss Palestine and the two runners-up. Netizens say such was Palestine before 1947.

"At that time: Miss Palestine with her two Runners-Up. Beauty in a peaceful country (Palestine) before 1947! Very fashionable and Unafraid!" reads the accompanying caption.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this is a picture of Miss Europe candidates in 1930.

advertisement

The beauty pageant was held in Paris. Here in this picture, contestants from Russia, Austria and Holland can be seen.

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse search, we found the viral image on multiple websites that referred to the picture as one clicked during the Miss Europe beauty pageant of 1930.

On the website of image hosting website "Flickr", it was posted as a French postcard from Paris with the title, "Miss Europe candidates 1930: the Misses Russia, Austria, and Holland".

The post gives details about the beauty pageant and contestants seen in the picture. The detailed caption reads, "Left Irene Wentzel (aka Irene Wentzell aka Irina Veisel) was Miss Russia in Paris in 1930, elected by Russian immigrants, so she joined the 1930 Miss Europe pageant in Paris. Center Ingeborg von Grinberger aka Grienberger was Miss Austria 1930, so she also joined the Miss Europe contest. Just like in 1929 the Austrian daily Das neue Wiener Tagblatt had organised the pageant. She originally came from the Austrian province of Steiermark. Most right is Rie van der Rest, the 1930 Miss Holland."

The same picture was also published in an article on the website "Bashny.Net" with the picture of each contestant of the said event. According to this article, Miss Greece Aliki Diplaraku was the winner of Miss Europe 1930.

We could not find mention of any Palestinian contestant in any of these articles. Neither did we find articles referring to Palestinian participation in global beauty pageants in those years. Since the viral picture was taken in 1930 in Paris and it shows contestants from Russia, Austria and Holland for the Miss Europe title, the viral claim is misleading.