A video purportedly showing members of the minority community in Jaipur hoisting a flag of UP priest Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati and openly threatening to kill him is being shared on social media. In this video, a mob can be seen insulting Narsinghanand, calling for his arrest for allegedly making inflammatory comments in 2021. Delhi Police also arrested him in April 2021 for hurting the sentiments of the minority community.

The video is being shared on Facebook with a Hindi caption: “राजस्थान में फिर से सर तन से जुदा जयपुर में घाटगेट का वीडियो – लो आ गया सेक्युलर हिंदुओ के लिए जबरदस्त वीडियो ज्यादा दूर नही हो तुम। हर हिंदू वीडियो को देखे शायद अब हिंदुत्व के लिए लड़ने वालो का तुम भी साथ दो, क्योकि कही ना कही वो तुम्हारी पीढ़ियों के लिए ही लड़ रहे है”

(English translation: Again head is separated from the body in Rajasthan. Video of Ghatgate in Jaipur. Here comes a tremendous video for secular Hindus. You are not far away. Watch every Hindu video. Maybe now you also support those who fight for Hindutva. Because somewhere they are fighting for your generations)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim and found it to be MISLEADING.

Using the InVid Tool, we extracted keyframes from the viral video and performed a Reverse Image Search with relevant keywords. This search directed us to a Facebook post that carried the same viral video on April 15, 2021. This clearly means that the video is not recent. According to the caption, the video shows a demonstration by Muslims in Jaipur against Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati.

Searching further, we found information related to this video in an article by TV9 Bharatvarsh on its website on July 19, 2022. The video, according to the article, shows a protest from April 2021 which happened in Jaipur’s Ghat Gate Bazar neighbourhood.

Recently, various news websites published articles clarifying that the viral video is from April 2021.

Recently, Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tweeted this video making a similar claim. In response, Jaipur Police clarified that this video is one-year-old and not recent.

कुछ असामाजिक तत्वों द्वारा जयपुर घाट गेट बाज़ार में एप्रिल २०२१ विडीओ बनाकर वाइरल करने कि कोशिश की गयी है। उन पर नियमानुसार कार्यवाही की गयी।

यह विडीओ समाज में धार्मिक द्वेष,नफ़रत फैलाता है।अतः इस विडीओ को फ़ॉर्वर्ड करेगा वह भी आपराधिक कृत्य के लिए ज़िम्मेदार होगा।

जयपुर पुलिस — Jaipur Police (@jaipur_police) July 19, 2022

Thus, it is evident from the above information that a year-old video is being falsely shared as recent protests in Jaipur against Yati Narsinghanand’s controversial comments. Therefore, the viral claim is misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news