Congress President Rahul Gandhi on Friday took potshots at the ruling party about the election promises made by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in 2014 and claimed that all of them have now fallen flat.

In his speech during the no-confidence motion in Lok Sabha, Rahul attacked the government aggressively over the employment opportunities in the country.

Where are the jobs promised for two crore youths? Only four lakh jobs have been created in the last one year. China gives employment to 50,000 youths in 24 hours. You give jobs to only 400 in 24 hours. - Rahul Gandhi said

advertisement

India Today Fact Check Team investigated the allegations made by the Congress President on the floor of the House.

According to the official website of China government, the employment scenario improved significantly in 2017 as compared to 2016.

China's unemployment rate stood at 3.9 per cent compared to India's 7.1 per cent around the same time.

China's Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security (MHRSS) had announced earlier this year that the country created 13.51 million jobs last year, an increase of 3,70,000 as compared to 2016.

As many as 13.51 million jobs in China in the last year boil down to 37,013 jobs per day. So Rahul Gandhi's claim of 50,000 jobs per day in China is a quite exaggerated.

Did Modi promise two crore jobs per year if voted to power as claimed by the Rahul Gandhi?

At an election rally in Agra on November 21 in 2013, Narendra Modi, NDA's prime ministerial candidate at that time, had promised one crore jobs.

If the BJP comes to power, it will provide one crore jobs which the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government could not do despite announcing it before the last Lok Sabha polls. - Narendra Modi said

The congress has been talking about the Modi's unfulfilled promise of two crore jobs for a long time now, but we could not find any such speech of Modi.

No such promise was made in the BJP's manifesto for 2014 Lok Sabha polls either.

The promised one crore jobs in five years come to 5,479 jobs per day. But did the Modi government succeed in achieving this target?

The plain and simple answer is - NO.

The Modi government is lagging behind by a huge margin after completing four years in office.

As per the Ministry of Labour and Employment report for 2016-17, the eight organised sectors, that account for 81 per cent of total jobs, added just 4.16 lakh jobs during the year. This comes up to only 1,139 jobs per day. So the government is nowhere close even to the half-way mark.

advertisement

To conclude, Rahul Gandhi in his speech exaggerated about the jobs in China and also misquoted the Prime Minister on his promise for job creation.

He rightly pointed out that the Modi government is way behind the target it had set for itself for employment generation.

However, looks like he indeed mixed up the figures.

(With inputs from Sahil Joshi and Vidya)