The Indian team is staring at an exit from the T20 World Cup after successive losses to Pakistan and New Zealand. And upset fans have poured out their disappointment against the Virat Kohli-led side on social media.

However, if some are to be believed, one particularly agonised youth from Uttar Pradesh broke four TV sets at his home after Team India's dismal performance.

advertisement

A picture of a youth smashing a TV set is circulating with the claim, "India has almost got out of T20 World Cup after losing to both NZ and Pakistan. 17 year old boy from UP broke 4 TV's in his house after seeing the match. He told his father - Yaar aapko TV ki padi hai idhar India haar rahi hai, aapko memechat ke kamaye huye paise se TV dila dunga yaar abhi mujhe TV todne do."

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The picture is from 2017 when India lost to Pakistan in the Champions Trophy final and some TV sets were smashed on the streets of Ahmedabad.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.

AFWA probe

Using reverse search on Yandex, we found the viral image along with two others retweeted by a Pakistani social media user on June 19, 2017. The original set was posted by Pakistan news website "Siasat.pk". "Latest images from India. #CT17 #PakvsInd," reads the caption.

Taking this as a clue, we further searched the Internet and came across an article published by cricket website "CricTracker" on June

19, 2017.

The article titled, "Fans break TV sets after India loses to Pakistan in Champions Trophy final", carries the viral picture and reported that the incident took place in Ahmedabad's Paldi. The India versus Pakistan final of the Champions Trophy

was held on June 18, 2017.

A tweet by "Bombay Times" on the night of the Champions Trophy final says, "TV sets broken on the streets of Ahmedabad after India's defeat by Pakistan in the #CT2017Final #IndVsPak." The accompanying set of four images also includes the viral one.

TV sets broken on the streets of Ahmedabad after India's defeat by Pakistan in the #CT2017Final #IndVsPak pic.twitter.com/Nhtwyutk8i — BombayTimes (@bombaytimes) June 18, 2017

For further clarification, we searched for the location and stores nearby on Google Maps. Two shops, namely 'Robbery' and 'Dharnidhar Parlour', as seen in the viral image were easily located on Google Maps as from Ahmedabad.

Mahensha Ranawat, the owner of cloth store 'Robbery', also confirmed to AFWA that the incident took place in 2017. Later, police arrived to take control of the situation.

Therefore, it's certain that the viral image is not from UP and it was not taken after India's defeat against New Zealand in the ongoing T20 World Cup.

(Inputs by Riddhish Dutta)