A video of Samajwadi Party president and former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav is getting viral on social media. By sharing this video users are claiming that Akhilesh Yadav made a statement that, this year Yogi will form the Government in Uttar Pradesh. Moreover, they are also claiming that Akhilesh Yadav gave this statement while addressing a public meeting.

A channel named ‘Kattar Hindu’ on YouTube posted a video. Along with the video wrote the caption, “Akal Less chacha Ne Bhi Yogi ko Maan Liya Jai ho #Kattar_Hindu “. In this video, Akhilesh Yadav is addressing a public meeting from his chariot.

Meanwhile, Social media users are sharing this video fiercely on Facebook and Twitter. Further, they are also claiming that Akhilesh Yadav has accepted that this time Yogi will form the government in UP.

Fact Check:

Firstly, we listened carefully to the video posted on YouTube. Akhilesh Yadav is saying in this video “Want to request that if Uttar Pradesh is to be taken on the path of prosperity, then a qualified government need be formed. Only then Uttar Pradesh will go on the path of prosperity.

It is clear from Akhilesh’s statement that he is talking about forming a “worthy government” in Uttar Pradesh. And, he never talked of forming a “Yogi government”.

At the same time, we saw the logo of the YouTube channel Headlines India on this video. After which we went to the YouTube channel of Headlines India and searched for this particular video. We found a video posted on Jan 2, 2022. In this video, they have not told the place at which Akhilesh is holding this public meeting. But, at 00:55 seconds of this video, we can hear that Akhilesh Yadav is talking about forming a qualified government, not a Yogi government.

Conclusion:

Hence, our fact analysis proves that Akhilesh Yadav is talking about forming a competent government in Uttar Pradesh. Above all, he never said that the Yogi government will be formed in UP. Therefore, these claims on Akhilesh Yadav are false and misleading.