Russia invaded Ukraine on 24 February 2022, marking a steep escalation of the Russo-Ukrainian War, which began in 2014 following the Ukrainian Revolution of Dignity. Since the start of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, 223 children have died and 408 were injured in Ukraine says various reports from different news sites.

Meanwhile, a video is getting viral on social media sites. In the video, large military tanks with military equipment can be seen.

People are sharing the video on Twitter with different captions.

A Twitter user (@khalediskef) wrote, “A circulated video by #Tampere residents, #Finland shows transporting military equipment to the eastern border with #Russia. In addition to dozens of Leopard tanks, a huge amount of Soviet equipment BMP, MTLB, KSHM-1V16.”

A circulated video by #Tampere residents, #Finland shows transporting military equipment to the eastern border with #Russia. In addition to dozens of Leopard tanks, a huge amount of Soviet equipment BMP, MTLB, KSHM-1V16 pic.twitter.com/NxO6BIVItb — Khaled Iskef خالد اسكيف (@khalediskef) May 3, 2022

Another user (@OsintTv) wrote, “Per report #Finland has begun moving military equipments presumably towards Russian border, following the pending decision to join #NATO. Visual from social media.”

https://twitter.com/OsintTv/status/1521763320088387584?s=20&t=zrHAt0jQt4e-L-wrJVa72g

Fact Check:

We reverse searched the video to know its authenticity of the video. We found that the video of the military tanks with military equipment is not from Finland but they are heading to Western Finland for the #Arrow22- exercise that was announced a year ago.

A Swedish news site too told the reality of the video in one of its reports.

They too posted about the same issue on their official Twitter handle.

“A video has been circulated in the network, which claims that the transfer of tanks to the Finnish borders is visible. The claim in the video is not true. The transfer of equipment is related to the Army’s mechanized Arrow 22 exercise. The internship takes place in Niinisalo and Säkylä.” Reads the caption.

Verkossa on kiertänyt video, jossa väitetään näkyvän panssarivaunujen siirtoa Suomen rajoille. Videon väite ei pidä paikkaansa. Kaluston siirto liittyy Maavoimien mekanisoituun Arrow 22 -harjoitukseen. Harjoittelu tapahtuu Niinisalossa ja Säkylässä. https://t.co/brtoTRj39R — Puolustusvoimat (@Puolustusvoimat) May 4, 2022

Conclusion:

the video is getting viral with misleading claim.

Claim Review: Finland transporting military equipment on the eastern border with Russia.

Claimed by: social media users.

Fact check: misleading