While the farmers' protest in India against the three new farm laws is gathering momentum, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau's remarks on the same were dismissed by the External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava as "ill-informed" and "unwarranted".

Meanwhile, an image of Trudeau went viral on Facebook where he is seen sitting with people of the Sikh community. It is being claimed that the Canadian PM is sitting in a 'dharna' in support of the protesting farmers in India.

advertisement

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found that though Trudeau extended his support to the agitating farmers in India, he never sat for any kind of 'dharna' or protest. The viral picture is from 2015 when he visited a Gurudwara in Ottawa, Canada.

The archived version of the post is saved here.

AFWA PROBE

With the help of reverse image search, we found the viral image dates back to 2015. It was featured in various news websites and is also available on the gallery "Adobe Stock". The photograph in question was originally taken by a Reuters photographer.

According to the news reports, in November 2015, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau visited a Hindu temple and a Gurudwara in Ottawa to celebrate Diwali with the Indo-Canadian community. The caption for this particular photo by Reuters reads, "Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau listens to speeches at the Gurudwara Sahib Ottawa Sikh Society in Ottawa, Canada, November 11, 2015."

Justin Trudeau has recently extended support to the protesting farmers in India. As per The Indian Express, on the occasion of Gurupurab while addressing his Canadian-Punjabi constituents, Trudeau said, "The news coming out of India, about the protest by farmers, the situation is concerning. We are all worried about families and friends...Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protests."

Tonight at an online event commemorating Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji’s Gurpurab, @JustinTrudeau expressed concerns about the right to peaceful protest and the #ChaloDelhi campaign in India. He confirmed that Canada has raised the issue with Indian authorities. pic.twitter.com/hf038m14Te — WSO (@WorldSikhOrg) December 1, 2020

But the viral post with a photograph of Trudeau sitting in "dharna" in support of the Indian farmers is misleading.