A Facebook user named ‘The Army Wife’s Diary’ shared a post on 29 May 2019. The post as translated from Hindi quoted “Indian Soldiers guarding in the scorching desert of Rajasthan. Why did you stop now, say Jai Hind.” As per this post’s claim, the woman shown in the post is an Indian soldier. Let us see what the facts are!

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA:

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

When we saw the photo in the post, the uniform of the woman did not match with the Indian Soldier Uniform. This increased our suspicion and we searched the photograph using ‘Google Reverse Image Search’. What we got in the search is below:

In this search result, we got a tweet by ‘Allison Barrie’, who shared a BBC report and wrote ‘Fighter + leader Asia Ramazan Antar ‘Angelina Jolie,’ killed fighting Islamic extremists’. This tweet also included the same photograph as in the post.

Fighter+ leader Asia Ramazan Antar 'Angelina Jolie,' killed fighting Islamic extremists https://t.co/5iRVgXzN8i pic.twitter.com/meon4U11m0 — Allison Barrie (@allison_barrie) September 12, 2016

The news report by ‘BBC’ stated that this Kurdish woman’s name is Asia Ramazan Antar and she was killed by IS Militants back in 2016. She was just 19 years old and a member of the YPG (Yekîneyên Parastina Gel) AKA People’s Protection Units. To read the entire article, please click on the link given below.

BBCNews | ArchivedLink

Apart from this, we also found a newspaper article by ‘TheTimes’ dated 9th September 2016, in which Asia’s death news was also published.

ThetimesPost | ArchivedLink

Based on the evidences we can confirm that the woman in the photograph is not an Indian Soldier, but a Kurdish woman who was killed back in 2016 by IS Militants.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact checked and confirms that the photograph is being share in the post with a wrong narrative. We categorise the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased photographs and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.