A video is being shared on social media claiming it as recent visuals of two women being washed away by strong waves in Mumbai’s Bandra beach. A few other social media users have posted this video mentioning it as an incident that took place at a seacoast in Maharashtra or Gujarat. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of two women being washed away by deadly waves on Mumbai’s Bandra beach. Fact: The video shared in the post shows a recent incident that took place at the Salalah Al Mughsail beach in Oman. On 10 July 2022, eight members of an expat Indian family were swept away by high tides on Salalah Al Mughsail beach. Five people reportedly lost their lives in this tragic accident. The incident did not take place at the Bandra beach in Maharashtra. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

On reverse image search of the screenshots in the video, a video with similar visuals was found in a tweet made by ‘Al Arabiya’ news channel on 12 July 2022. ‘Al Arabiya’ reported it as visuals of giant waves sweeping away eight members of a family at the Salalah Al Mughsail beach in Oman. The tweet states, “Watch: A family is swept away by a giant wave on #Oman’s Mughsail beach after eight members reportedly crossed the beach’s boundary fence”.

Watch: A family is swept away by a giant wave on #Oman's Mughsail beach after eight members reportedly crossed the beach's boundary fence.https://t.co/2KHqOMobdD pic.twitter.com/w2auuYfUku — Al Arabiya English (@AlArabiya_Eng) July 12, 2022

Reporting the details of the tragic incident, ‘Al Arabiya’ and a few other Arab news websites published articles. They can be seen here, here and here. According to these reports, on 10 July 2022, eight members of an expat Indian family were swept away by high tides on Salalah Al Mughsail beach. The family is reportedly from Maharashtra and have been living in Dubai. As per the latest news reports, five people lost lives in this tragic accident.

Several Indian news websites have also published articles and videos reporting this tragic accident that took place in Oman. A few of these news reports can be seen here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the video shared in the post shows a tragic accident that took place in Oman, not at the Bandra beach in Maharashtra.

To sum it up, a video showing deadly waves sweeping away people in Oman beach is shared as women drowning in Mumbai’s Bandra beach.