Amid nationwide uproar over the Hathras incident, a disturbing video of a group of men assaulting a woman is viral on social media with the claim that they are upper caste men from Uttar Pradesh, who were beating the woman for fetching water from a public well.

Throughout the video, the woman can be seen crying in pain as the men whip and slap her, pull her hair and shove her to the ground. The Tamil caption with one such video translates to, “Look at the injustice done to women in Yogi’s Uttar Pradesh. Upper caste men are beating a woman for fetching drinking water from a public well.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The incident is from Gujarat wherein a tribal girl was beaten up by members of her community for eloping with a man.

Archived versions of some of the videos can be seen here, here and here. The video also went viral with a similar claim in June this year.

AFWA probe

Using InVID and appropriate keywords, we found the video is not from UP, but a village in Gujarat. The incident took place on May 21 this year. We found screen grabs of the video in several news articles.

According to a report by “News18” titled, “Gujarat: Minor Tribal Girl Brutally Thrashed for Eloping, Video Goes Viral”, this incident took place at Bilvant village near Bodeli town in Chhota Udepur district, Gujarat, on May 21.

As per the report, the woman being thrashed in the video is a 16-year-old girl from a tribal community who’d recently eloped with a 20-year-old man from her village.

Quoting Deputy Superintendent of Police AV Katkad, the article said the men were angry at the girl as they consider eloping to be an act that would bring disrespect to their community.

According to a report by “The Times of India” published on May 28, police registered an offense against 15 people for being involved in the incident. They were also booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.

We also found the same video on several news websites with the same information.

A similar claim was debunked by fact-check website “Boom Live” in May.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video is not from UP, but Gujarat, and the woman was not thrashed for using a public well, but by her own community members for eloping with her lover.