To the relief of many, Cyclone Asani weakened to a depression and left coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha without causing much damage. However, a video has gone viral on social media claiming to be a scene of havoc caused by it. In the video, a lightning bolt strikes a tree, causing its heavy branches to fall over the adjacent building with a loud sound.

advertisement

Several social media users claimed that this incident happened in India during the recent Asani cyclone.

A Twitter user posted this video with the caption, “When lightning hits a tree let's after see this #CycloneAsani #Cyclone #AndhraPradesh #Odisha #WestBengal #Asani #TejRan #CycloneUpdate”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is neither recent nor from India. It was shot five years ago in Canada.

AFWA probe

We noticed that a person in a reply to the tweet had said that the video was not from India.

Facebook post dated September 4, 2017. “Exceptional nearby lightning strike - location somewhere in Canada,” the video was captioned. This confirmed that the video is not related to cyclone Asani. Further, a reverse search of the viral video keyframes led us to adated September 4, 2017. “Exceptional nearby lightning strike - location somewhere in Canada,” the video was captioned. This confirmed that the video is not related to cyclone Asani.

Using keywords like ‘lightning strike’ and ‘Canada’ along with the date filter on Google, we found a report by ‘The Daily Mail’ dated September 4, 2017. As per this report, the building over which the branches had fallen following the lightning strike was a Canadian hunting lodge. The lodge administration later confirmed that all the visitors were safe.

The video was filmed by a man named Oliver Dorion at the Bryson Lake Lodge in Mansfield-et-Pontefract, Quebec, Canada.

Asani was the first cyclone to hit India in the year 2022. It was named by Sri Lanka and means ‘wrath’ in Sinhala language. Some visuals of the cyclone can be seen here.

Hence, we can conclude an old video of a lightning strike incident in Canada is being falsely linked with the recent Asani cyclone.