A recent video of Chhattisgarh Cabinet minister Mohammad Akbar has gone viral for not saluting the tricolour during the national anthem. Netizens targeted the minister, even branding him "anti-national".

India Today Fact Check found that as per the Flag Code of India, it is not mandatory for a civilian to salute the tricolour. It is also mentioned that "those present in uniform should render the appropriate salute".

advertisement

A Twitter user, Sameer Maheswari, posted this 1.14 minute-long video from a Republic Day function in Chhattisgarh. Along with the video, he wrote a message saying, "Yeh hai Chhattisgarh Congress ke mantri Mohammad Akbar ji jinhone tirange ko salami dena bhi uchit nahin samjha (This is Chhattisgarh Congress minister Mohammad Akbarji who didn't find it improper to not salute the tricolour). The video bears the logo of 'Hamarkhabar.com'.





This tweet was liked by more than a thousand people and retweeted nearly 900 times at the time of filing this article. Many users condemned the Congress minister for not saluting the national flag.

The same post was shared by several users on Facebook as well.

Dainik Bhaskar reported that Chhattisgarh BJP demanded an apology from the Congress minister for not saluting the national flag.

India Today found the original video of the ceremony on YouTube as covered by news portal Hamarkhabar.com.

According to the report, Chhattisgarh Cabinet minister Mohammad Akbar hoisted the national flag at the PG College ground on the Republic Day at Kawardha. The minister indeed did not salute the tricolour during the national anthem.

We found that according to Section VI of the Flag Code of India 2002 on the website of the Ministry of Home Affairs, there is a clear code of conduct on 'Salute'.

It says during the ceremony of hoisting or lowering the Flag or when the Flag is passing in a parade or in a review, all persons present should face the Flag and stand at attention.

Also read: Fact Check: Bangladeshi woman's viral video is not of religious conversion but exorcism

Also read: Fact Check: The news behind Indian woman soldier dying in Kashmir is fake