The image has been created by using two different images. The viral image is edited.

An image showing National Democratic Alliance (NDA)’s presidential candidate Draupadi Murmu praying in front of an image of a Hindu goddess with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat is widely circulating on social media.

Draupadi Murmu is the former Jharkhand governor who was announced the presidential candidate by the ruling NDA. If elected she will become the first Adivasi president and the second-ever woman president of India.

The caption of this viral post states, “Smt Draupadi Murmu visits RSS headquarters to meet Mohan Bhagwat at Nagpur to seek his blessings for her candidature. Have we got any more doubts as to where we are being led from?

We are led from the RSS headquarters.”

Facebook Post | Facebook Post

We found that Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan previously shared this image with the same claim however, later he issued a correction rectifying his mistake and deleting his tweet.

Fact Check-

A reverse image search on Google led us to a report by BBC published on 23 June 2022. However, we can only see Draupadi Murmu standing with Jharkhand’s Chief Minister Hemant Soren with her hands folded. It is clear that the viral image has been edited. Draupadi Murmu’s image has been cropped and mirrored to create the viral image.

Below you can see the comparison image between the viral image and the image published by BBC on June 2022.

We found that Hemant Soren, Jharkhand’s chief minister had posted several other images of this meeting with Draupadi Murmu. The caption of the post states, “Today, on the occasion of completion of one year of Jharkhand Government, met Governor Smt. Draupadi Murmu ji at Raj Bhavan.”

आज झारखण्ड सरकार के एक साल पूरे होने के अवसर पर राजभवन में राज्यपाल श्रीमती द्रौपदी मुर्मू जी से मुलाकात की। pic.twitter.com/Si262ts95D — Hemant Soren (@HemantSorenJMM) December 29, 2020

We found the image of Mohan Bhagwat praying to a Hindu goddess posted on RSS Twitter account. The caption of the post states, “The meeting of the All India Pratinidhi Sabha of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh began today in Karnavati, Gujarat. Beginning of the meeting Sarsanghchalak Dr. Mohanji Bhagwat and Mr. Sarkaryavah Shri Dattatreya Hosabale did it by garlanding the picture of Mother India. The meeting will conclude on March 13.”

राष्ट्रीय स्वयंसेवक संघ की अखिल भारतीय प्रतिनिधि सभा की बैठक आज गुजरात के कर्णावती में प्रारम्भ हुई। बैठक का शुभारम्भ पू. सरसंघचालक डॉ. मोहनजी भागवत और मा. सरकार्यवाह श्री दत्तात्रेय होसबाले जी ने भारत माता के चित्र पर पुष्पार्चन करके किया। बैठक 13 मार्च को सम्पन्न होगी। pic.twitter.com/gWNk7KwpwZ — RSS (@RSSorg) March 11, 2022

Below you can see the comparison image between the viral image and images posted by RSS organization.

The original images have been edited to create a false narrative on social media.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the viral image to be altered. The image does not show Mohan Bhagwat and Draupadi Murmu at the RSS headquarter in Nagpur. The image has been created by using two different images. The first image shows Draupadi Murmu with Jharkhand’s chief minister Hemant Soren and the second image shows Mohan Bhagwat praying to Bharat Mata in Karnavati, Gujarat.