A Facebook user named ‘Mohd Shamim’ shared a post on 17 June 2019. The post contains a photograph with four people shown in it. Out of the four, three look like Muslims as they are wearing similar head caps like Muslims. The fourth person however, looks from the European country, wearing a suit. They look like they are discussing something. The post as translated from Hindi quoted “Masha Allah! Bill Gates, the world’s richest man, embraced Islam.” The news of Bill Gates’s adopting Islam has not been reported anywhere. The world’s most famous man has accepted Islam and no news was published, this thing is not possible. Therefore, we suspected this claim.

Let us see what the facts are!

The news of Bill Gates‘s adoption of Islam is not published anywhere. The world’s most famous man has confessed with Islam and no news is published, this thing is not possible. Therefore, we suspected this claim. So, let us know the truth of this claim.

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA:

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

First we searched with the claim mentioned on this post and came across few similar videos from. Last year in 2018, a user named Firoz Firoz shared a video, which claimed that Bill Gates, the world’s richest man, adopted Islam. The shared photo in the above post is also a screenshot of this video. You can see the post with the video below.

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

After this, we did a reverse image search of the photograph given in the above post and discovered that this video has been viral with different claims.

We found a tweeter link. You can see this tweet dated 18 March 2018. This tweet is in Arabic language. The Google translation of this tweet in English is as follows – This is an army commander in the U.S. Department of Defence, who declares his Islam in Muscat, may Allah protect Islam and Muslims; and humiliate the enemies of Islam. Do not give up my Muslim brothers about science and work. It claims that the person who declares Islam in the video is the Army Commander in the American Department of Defence.

هذا قائد جيوش في وزارة الدفاع الامريكية يعلن إسلامه في مسقط اللهم أعز الإسلام والمسلمين وأذل أعداء الإسلام

لا تيأس أخي المسلم عليك بالعلم والعمل



https://t.co/EgQeAuzACt — تاريخنا العظيم (@mssmK900) March 18, 2018

TwitterPost | ArchivedTweet

We got another tweet from this same search. In the video of this tweet dated 11 June 2018, it is said that America’s former Home Secretary John McCain adopted Islam. You can see this tweet below.

https://twitter.com/sozun_haysiyeti/status/1006148171045785600

TwitterPost | ArchivedTweet

Apart from this, we also got a link to the uploaded YouTube video dated 17 March 2018, which states that ‘An American enters Islam in the Sultanate of Oman and cries of joy’. This description is also in Arabic language. You can see this video below.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fEkI5KL3Gbg

After getting variation in statement, we searched Bill Gates’s official Twitter account however, we did not get any tweets, in which Gates accepted or rejected Islam.

After this, we also searched on Google using different key words however, we did not get any concrete results. We did a reverse image by taking a screen shot of the person appearing in the video. But, we did not get any results that can identify this person.

Then we took the profile of Gates from the Twitter account and took the screen shot of that person from the video. We compared the two pictures. This comparison shows that the person in the video is not Bill Gates. There is no similarity between both the faces. Gates keeps wearing specs all the time, while the person appearing in the video does not have eyeglasses. From this, we can clearly say, that the person visible in the video is not Bill Gates. His identity can be anything but Bill Gates is not sure.

You can see the comparison of both photos below.

This is not the first time such rumours are spread about the Gates family. Even before this, Gates’s daughter was also claimed that she has accepted Islam. ‘Factcrescendo’ also checked the facts of the claim, which you can read on this link.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact checked and confirms that the video is being share in the post with a wrong narrative. We categorise the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased video and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.