Weeks before the Punjab assembly elections and amid the on-going high-octane political campaigning, a video of Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Singh Mann has gone viral where he can be heard saying that Kejriwal robbed everything from a family whose daughter was about to get married.

Multiple Facebook and Twitter users have shared this viral clip where Mann can be seen delivering the tale in Punjabi language.

advertisement

The audio roughly translates to: “A well-to-do family organised their daughter’s wedding. For the dowry, they bought expensive sofas, a television, expensive suits, utensils, trunks, and jewellery. The baraat was scheduled to arrive the next day. A night before the baraat’s arrival, Kejriwal got to know that they have so much stuff at their home. Kejriwal got a truck, parked it in their home and locked the girl’s whole family in a room. Then he packed everything — from the sofas to the suits to the jewellery and the sweets — in his truck. Right before leaving, Kejriwal gave the girl Rs 500 as shagun (blessing) for the wedding. The next day, the family didn’t file an FIR with the police saying that they might have stolen everything, but they were good people since they gave their daughter shagun.”



The viral clip has been posted on Facebook with a caption, "Bhagwant Mann speaks the truth when he's drunk."

India Today Anti-Fake News War room ( AFWA) found that the viral clip is doctored. In the original video Bhagwant Mann said “daaku” or dacoits or robbers. Not Kejriwal.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID and reverse image search, we found the original video. The original video of Bhagwant Mann’s speech was uploaded by his verified YouTube channel on December 23, 2021. The same video was uploaded by the YouTube channel of Aam Aadmi Party Punjab

From the title, we inferred that he was delivering the speech during a rally in the Dinanagar constituency in Punjab.

Just past the 5-minute-55-second mark in the YouTube video uploaded by Bhagwant Mann, one can hear the exact portion of the viral speech.

Bahgwant Mann was attacking the Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi satirically by comparing him to a “daaku” or a robber, who steals everything but tries to atone himself by doing a small good.

Mann said “Daakus gave the girl Rs 500 as shagun (blessing) for the wedding. The next day, the family didn’t file an FIR with the police saying they might have stolen everything but they were good people as they gave their daughter shagun. This is exactly what Channi was doing. They were looting Punjab for the last 4.5 years and now they are giving shagun to doli cars”.

advertisement

This was in reference to Channi giving "shagun" to a random married couple on the road. It was reported by news outlets that in September last year, the Punjab CM, during his tour to Bhatinda, halted his convoy when he spotted a newly married couple at village Mandi Kalan. Channi reportedly hugged the man and gave “shagun” to his wife after alighting from his vehicle.

Hence, it is clear that a doctored video of AAP candidate Bhagwant Mann has gone viral. Mann in the original video did not mention Kejriwal. Rather he said “daaku” or robber to narrate a satirical story.

( with input from Yash Mittal)