Our respect for the armed forces multiplies as every day we come across the pictures of their rescue operation in the flood-hit Kerala.

As per the report of Ministry of Defence, 32,000 people have been rescued and 3,500 people received medical aid by Indian Armed Forces so far in Kerala.

Indian Air Force has carried 794 sorties to facilitate safe transport of 3,031 passengers and distribution of 822 tonne of relief material in various parts of Kerala.

advertisement

As Kerala slowly limps out of its worst crisis situation, questions are being raised on social media that does it all come for free?

Some comments like "army bills the state for flood relief work" and central government foots the bill by adjusting the grant it announces, sparked a new controversy among the netizens.

Screenshot from Twitter

This same controversy came up in 2014, when Jammu and Kashmir was hit by floods and armed forces carried out a commendable job to help the citizens.

The Centre came under attack by the state, as media reported that the Ministry of Defence raised a Rs 500-crore-bill for relief operations in the state.

Does military aid for a flood hit state come free? Who foots the bill for the huge expenditure incurred by the relief operations?

India Today Fact Check team tried to find the right answer.

As per Government Accounting Rule, 1990 stated by Controller General of Accounts, in Appendix 5, it is clarified in details what are the charges a state government has to pay for the various kinds of duties armed forces perform during natural and other calamities such as earthquakes, floods, fire and famine.

Besides, other costs as mentioned in the lists, the cost of consumable stores and non-consumable stores, which includes depreciation of an aircraft, repairs and maintenance among all other things will also be chargeable.

WHAT IS THE PROCESS OF BILLING?

So the expenditures incurred by the armed forces during performing relief operations during natural disasters in any state are not free.

The bills are raised by the Ministry of Defence for the relief and rescue operations undertaken by the three services in the state.

Normally, the central government adjusts this cost while disbursing the relief package to the state and sometimes the state bears the cost partially.

While some like to call this process a 'book adjustment', veteran army officer Major General (retired) Ashok Mehta thinks raising this bill by the MoD to state is quite justified, "Moving troops, hundreds of sorties by IAF, fuel, food, these expenditures definitely cut a hole in Army's pocket, so somebody has to replenish it."