Spread the truth:

Image shared on social media claims that the bridge seen in the picture is the Bandra-Worli sea link built during the Modi government. The tweet is in Hindi which reads, “यह कोई अमेरीका फ़्रांस लन्दन का ब्रीज नही है यह बांद्रा के मुंबई का ब्रीज है, वाह मोदी जी”.

Translation: This is not the bridge of America, France or London, it is the Bandra-Worli sea link in Mumbai, Hail for Modi”

Twitter

The tweet is liked by more than 9000 people and retweeted by 1600 people. Archive.

He is the district minister in Jodhpur. He belongs to BJP. Archive.

He is also the district minister in Darbhanga, Bihar. He belongs to Bharatiya Janta Party. Archive.

Facebook

Truth

The viral image is of the Bandra-Worli sea link but was completed 11 years ago, not made under Modi government.

We found the earliest upload date of this photo in October 2020

The construction of a 5.6km long and 8 lane wide bridge connecting Bandra in Western suburbs, Mumbai and Worli in South Mumbai was started in 2000. The bridge was inaugurated by Congress President Sonia Gandhi in 2009. By searching, we found a blog written by four writers on “Making of Bandra-Worli Sea Link” on the platform ‘My Coordinates, a monthly magazine on positioning, navigation and beyond’.

By searching with keywords, we received numerous articles of June 30, 2009 when the sea link was inagurted by Sonia Gandhi. It was reported by various media firms like Times of India, India Today, Hindustan Time, Outlook magazine and many more.

While searching for the inauguration of Bandra-Worli Sea Link, we found videos from NDTV India that was aired on 2009.

We also found a video published on Times Now youtube channel on August 2, 2009.

News X, a verified youtube channel with 671k subscribers has uploaded a video of inauguration where Sonia Gandhi is seen cutting the ribbon.

Hence, the context is misleading. It is falsely crdited to PM Modi. The bridge was inaugurated in 2009 and Narendra Modi was sworn as Prime Minister of India in 2014.

Related