As the trend “#byebyemodi” gained momentum on social media, several social media users shared an image purportedly showing a TIME magazine cover featuring PM Modi with a moustache of late-German dictator Adolf Hitler overlaid on his face. The words “#byebyemodi” can also be seen superimposed on the image. Newschecker found the image to be fabricated.

Social Media Convenor of TRS Party @ysathishreddy shared the image with the caption “Modi is a PM with no vision, no intellect & absolutely no desire to uplift the needy of the nation. All he has is hunger to power! #ByeByeModi, (sic) “ on June 23, 2022. The post has so far been liked 5,898 times, retweeted and quoted over 2,000 and nearly 200 times respectively. An archived version of the same can be seen here.

Screenshot of Tweet by @ysathishreddy

Several Facebook users also shared the viral image

Screenshot of Facebook post by user Rakesh Rao Arigela

Screenshot of Facebook post by @vamshisaim

Screenshot of Facebook post by user Pulusu Ravi-RPR

Such posts can be seen here, here and here.

The tweet was part of a TRS online campaign, against PM Narendra-Modi ahead of the BJP’s national executive meeting in Hyderabad which is to be held on July 2-3. Social media platforms were flooded with posts critical to the Modi government under the “#byebyemodi” campaign.

Also Read: Viral Image Of New York Times Article Claiming AAP’s Gujarat Rally Created World Record Is Fake

Fact Check/Verification

Newschecker scanned the official website of TIME but did not find any such magazine cover comparing PM Modi to Adolf Hitler. We searched for the viral hashtag “byebyeModi” on the website which did not yield any result either.

Screengrab from TIME website

The latest editions of TIME magazine from the June 20/June 27 issues were featured on the website. One featured Euro commission chief Ursula von der Ley, while the other listed the names of “every city that has suffered one of America’s 213 mass shootings so far this year.

TIME magazine covers for June 20/June 27 editions

The magazine recently unveiled its cover for July4/July 11 issue, which did not match the viral image either.

Time magazine cover for July 4/July 11 edition

We also looked up their social media accounts which were also devoid of any such image.

Newschecker further analysed the viral image and noticed several discrepancies with the format in which TIME magazine covers are designed.

(L-R) Time magazine cover for June20/June27 edition, Time magazine cover for July4/July11 edition and Viral image

To begin with, the words ‘Double issue’ on the top left and the date on top right seen in the latest cover is missing in the viral image. One also notes that the domain address of the website, ‘time.com’, is written on the bottom right corner of the latest cover, but the viral image does not mention the same. In addition, a white breathing space is seen betwee the cover image and the red outline, which is also missing in the viral image.

Newschecker reached out to TIME magazine for their comments. The story will be updated on receiving their response.

Conclusion

Viral image claiming to show a TIME magazine cover featuring PM Modi’s face overlaid with Adolf Hitler’s moustache is fabricated. The magazine did not issue any such cover.

Result: False

Sources



Official Website Of TIME



Self Analysis

If you would like us to fact check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 ​or email us at ​checkthis@newschecker.in​. You can also visit the Contact Us​ page and fill the form.