A video of few people creating ruckus in a hospital ward is being shared on social media with the claim that kidneys were robbed from a patient by hospital authorities in Nagpur, by conducting a post-mortem on the patient who is still alive and later, the patient was declared dead due to COVID-19. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

The archived version of the post can be found here.

Claim: Video of the relatives of a patient creating a ruckus as kidneys were robbed from the patient at a hospital in Nagpur on the pretext of COVID-19. Fact: The incident in the video took place at Cooper Hospital in Mumbai. It has been reported that the family members alleged that the patient died after being administered an injection. On the other hand, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said that all the necessary medical procedures were followed and there were no lapses from the hospital side. There is no kidney robbery angle to the incident. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

When the screenshots of the video were run through Google Reverse Image Search, many news articles regarding the incident were found in the search results. In the ‘ANI’ article, it can be read that the ‘relatives of a patient, who died at Cooper Hospital in Mumbai where he was admitted for treatment, created ruckus at the hospital premises on July 19. The family members alleged that the patient was administered an injection after which he died’. ‘ANI’ has also tweeted regarding the incident.

#WATCH Mumbai: Relatives of a patient, who died at Cooper Hospital in Mumbai where he was admitted for treatment, create ruckus at the hospital. His family alleges that he was administered an injection after which he died. (Note: Abusive language) (19.07.2020) pic.twitter.com/qm9bC8lBPD — ANI (@ANI) July 21, 2020

In the India Today article, it can be read that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has clarified regarding the incident saying – ‘A 30-year-old man was brought to the Cooper Hospital for treatment on Sunday, July 19, 2020, at around 10 pm. At this time, a health complaint was lodged by his relatives that blood was coming out of his mouth. The senior medical officers present at the hospital immediately examined the patient and started treatment after an X-ray examination. However, the patient died shortly after that, at around 11.15 pm”. They also said – “The patient was also provided with immediate and appropriate treatment by the hospital. There is no negligence in it‘. Reports by other news agencies regarding the incident can be read here and here. So, there is no kidney robbery angle to the incident.

Since the COVID-19 pandemic began, a lot of posts are being shared on social media alleging that kidneys are being robbed from the patients on the pretext of COVID-19. Some of those posts can be found here and here. But there are no confirmed reports of any such incident. One of those posts was already debunked by FACTLY previously. The fact-check article can be read here.

To sum it up, the kidneys were not robbed by the hospital on the pretext of COVID-19 in this incident. The relatives alleged that proper treatment was not given, and the patient died due to administering an injection.

Did you watch our new video?