Even as heavy monsoon rain lashes Mumbai, inundating low-lying areas of the city, a shocking video on social media is sending shivers of dread down citizens’ spines. The viral video shows a motorcycle being pulled out of a water-filled pothole’ in Mumbai. While some social media users claimed the video was recorded in Chembur, others said it was from Ulhasnagar in neighbouring Thane district. But all of them blamed the local authorities for not doing their job properly.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found out that the video is not from Mumbai but from Jalna district of Maharashtra, which is about 400 km away from state’s capital. The incident occurred on Tuesday, July 2.

The video shows a rain-soaked street where one man can be seen trying to pull a motorcycle which is submerged completely under water. Soon, some more people come to help him and manage to pull out the bike after a lot of effort. The 45-second video has been shared widely by Twitter users like Dhaval Bheda who claimed, Big pothole in Chembur. Swallowed a bike. The twitter post was shared by over 200 people and the archived version of this tweet can be seen here. While replying to the tweet, many people slammed the local municipal corporations of Mumbai (the BMC) and of Ulhasnagar. However, after it was pointed out that the video was not from Mumbai, the post was deleted by Bheda.

Many Facebook users too shared this video with the same claim.

A few news websites like ScoopWhoop also carried this story and the archived version of their article can be seen here.

AFWA searched the internet and came across this post by Facebook user Pramod Totla from Jalna who had uploaded this video on July 2. In the post, Totla had stated that this incident happened on July 2 near the Town Hall in Jalna. AFWA spoke to him and his friend Rahul Jagtap, who runs a medical shop called Rahul Medical’ near the Town Hall. Jagtap said that the road on which this accident occurred is called Kacheri road’ and also pointed out that a board of Shashwat Piles Hospital can be seen in the video too.

AFWA also spoke to the Chief Officer of Jalna Municipal Council, Santosh Khandekar who confirmed that the video is from his town. There is no underground sewage system in Jalna, and all the open drains are by the roadside. On July 2, after heavy rains, the roads were flooded which led to this accident. This video is from Jalna, said Khandekar.

AFWA also spoke to a resident of Jalna, Vijay Sali who shot a photo from exactly the same spot from where the viral video was recorded to establish that the video is indeed from Jalna. The photo can be seen here.

After this video of the motorcycle being pulled out of the pothole went viral, the BMC has requested social media users to verify facts before circulating such content, which could lead to unnecessary panic #TweetResponsibly.