After the much-awaited Supreme Court verdict on the Ayodhya land dispute, two photographs showing idols of Lord Ram, Lakshman and Sita are doing the rounds on social media.

It is being claimed that these are the very idols that were shifted from Ayodhya for a safer place down south before Mughal emperor Babur desecrated the Ram Janmabhoomi.

The claim further says that a Swami placed the idols at Narayan Ashram on the banks of River Tungabhadra at Harihar in present-day Karnataka where they have been worshipped since then. And now, the idols will be returned to Lord Ram's birthplace at Ayodhya.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that both pictures are indeed from Sri Sadguru Samartha Narayana Maharaj Ashram in Harihar city of Karnataka's Davanagere district. However, there is no credible evidence to establish the authenticity to the claim that these idols were brought from Ayodhya at the time of Mughal emperor Babur.

The claim, along with the photos, is circulating on WhatsApp. Some have also shared it on Facebook and Twitter.

WHAT AFWA FOUND

During the investigation, we found both images in a photo gallery of Kannada Times.

According to "Kannada Times", these images are from Sri Sadguru Samartha Narayana Maharaj Ashram in Harihar and clicked by Chinmaya.M.Rao. AFWA delved deeper into the images:

FIRST PHOTO

This photo shows the idols of Lord Ram, Lakshman and Sita made up of metal. We reached out to a member of the ashram's working committee, Purushottam Gupta, who said, "These idols are moved out in the ashram's hall area for public offerings and pujas during festivities. Most likely, they are not more than 70-80 years old. The claim that they had been brought from Ayodhya centuries ago is not right."

We also showed the above photo to Ashok Shettar, a retired professor from the department of history and archaeology at Karnataka University. He too said that the claim of these idols being brought from Ayodhya is "bogus".

We then spoke to Satyendra Das, a court-authorised priest at Ayodhya's Ram temple, who denied having heard of the viral story ever.

He pointed out that the Ram Janmabhoomi temple is dedicated to "Ram Lalla", i.e. Ram as a child. Therefore, one would find idols of Lord Ram, Lakshman, Bharat and Shatrughan in the makeshift tent at the disputed site, but no idol of his wife Sita. He argued that since the viral photo also has an idol of Sita, hence it is unlikely to be from Ayodhya.

SECOND PHOTO

This photo shows black stone idols of Lord Ram, Lakshman and Sita. Regarding this photo, ashram working committee member Purushottam Gupta told us, "After the Ayodhya verdict, some locals started believing that these idols were brought from Ayodhya. However, there is no evidence to that effect. These idols date further back and are placed in the ashram's sanctum sanctorum."

India Today TV also spoke to a senior journalist in Davanagere, Mohammed Nazir, who said he had never heard of this viral story before the Supreme Court verdict on Ayodhya.

advertisement

"Here in Davanagere, after the verdict, people started believing that the stone idols were brought from Ayodhya. As both the images are from the same place, social media users are sharing the same claim with the photo of metal idols too," he added.

We then reached out to Davanagere district magistrate Mahantesh Belagi, who said that looking at the renewed interest of people in the stone idols, he now plans to get them examined by Archaeological Survey of India experts and historians.

Regarding the stone idols, Ayodhya priest Satyendra Das told us that though they look quite old it is difficult to say that these idols were taken to Harihar from Ram Janambhoomi."

CONCLUSION

From the above evidence, India Today TV concluded that the debate over Ayodhya's original idols is regarding the stone ones, but with both sets of idols from the same ashram, some people are also sharing the metal idols with the viral claim that they were brought to safety just before Babur demolished Ram Janambhoomi.

However, till now, we could not find that any proof which ascertains that the idols were brought from Ayodhya hundreds of years ago. It is also to be noted that the viral post started circulating only after the Supreme Court's verdict on the Ayodhya land. However, till the time there is an official report by ASI or any archaeological expert on this matter, it is difficult to dismiss the claim either.