Ahead of civic body elections in Hyderabad on December 1, a video of a woman removing a huge Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) banner from a wall and dumping it on the pavement is going viral.

The banner had the pictures of Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao and his son KT Rama Rao. The claim along with the 52-second video says she is fed up with the TRS's "false promises" and "inefficient governance".

advertisement

"Fed up with false promises of the TRS party and their inefficient governance, a woman in Hyderabad removes a flexi banner related to TRS' election campaign," reads the caption of one such video on Facebook.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The woman in the video is a Congress leader who removed the banner because it allegedly violated the Election Commission's model code of conduct.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found that the woman in the video is Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) general secretary Uzma Shakir.

According to the model code of conduct, banners, hoardings, advertisements, etc. depicting the achievements of political parties in power at the Centre or states are not allowed out of public money from the date of announcement of elections. Shakir suspected that the TRS banner violated the model code of conduct.

We found longer versions of the video uploaded on several YouTube channels identifying the woman as Shakir.

The Hindi description below one such video uploaded on November 22 translates to, "How can ECI be so negligent? How did it allow such hoardings even after the code of conduct came into force? Congress leader Uzma Shakir today removed hoardings at Mehdipatnam, Rethibowli and Masab Tank areas."

We further searched the Internet and found a Facebook page in Shakir's name. On November 14, the page had uploaded some photos of a similar woman in the same attire.

Here is a comparison.

From the horse's mouth

AFWA spoke to Shakir over the phone, who confirmed that the woman in the video is her. "It was shot yesterday (November 22) while we were removing illegal hoardings of TRS in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area. Hyderabad goes to polls on December 1. Violating the model code of conduct, TRS is erecting posters that advertise government schemes and ask people to vote for them," she alleged.

"Despite raising the matter to the state election commission, no action was taken against the hoardings. So we decided to remove them ourselves," Shakir added.

advertisement

Several opposition parties have demanded the removal of TRS's advertisements in Hyderabad.

Hence, it is clear that the woman in the video is Congress leader Uzma Shakir and she was removing the TRS banner as it allegedly violated the Election Commission's model code of conduct.