On 15th September 2019, a video was posted on a Facebook page called ‘Bollywood Blues’. In this video the police are seen beating two youths. It is written in the description of this post that, “A new movie called Mission Challan made by Modi ji’ on the new law is being released. This law is applicable only on the poor. This video is from the district Mungeli of Chhattisgarh state. It is very disturbing to see the policemen regarding themselves as kings. This needs to be stopped soon otherwise these policemen may kill anyone. If the public is outraged, then the result will be reversed.” In this video, it is being claimed that the police is torturing poor people in order to extract the challan amount as per the new regulations.

Is this true? Let us find out the truth behind the post.

FacebookPost|ArchivedLink

To check the authenticity of this case, we contacted C.P. Tandon, SP of Mungeli District in Chhattisgarh and asked about this video. He told us that, “This incident occurred recently on 9th September at Padav Chowk under Mungeli police station.” We received a complaint of a commotion that was created by two alcoholics. Based on this complaint, when two policemen went to Padav Chowk from the police station, they noticed that two people who were intoxicated with alcohol were creating a disturbance. When an attempt was made to put them in an auto rickshaw to bring them to the police station, one person sat down but the other person started abusing the police officer and started protesting while sitting in the rickshaw. This video was taken at that time. This incident has nothing to do with the motor challan.

Apart from this, we have also found news published in this context. To read these news articles in full, click on the link given below.

This research makes it clear that the video shared in the post has no relation with the motor challan. Both the people were intoxicated with alcohol and were creating a nuisance. When the police officers were trying to make them sit in a rickshaw to bring them to the police station, they both started protesting. This video shown was recorded when the police used force to contain the ruckus created by the two drunk men.This video is being circulated for the purpose of confusing people with incorrect details.

Result of the investigation: The claim in the above post ‘This video is about the atrocities committed by the police on the poor for collecting challan’ is wrong.