Bihar political climate is hot. only speculation is made about what Nitish Kumar will do. There are media and social media reports that Nitish Kumar can break the alliance with BJP and form the government again with Congress and RJD. At the same time many misleading claims have started going viral on social media regarding Nitish Kumar.

It is being claimed on social media about Nitish Kumar that he called Ishrat Jahan, the alleged terrorist killed in a police encounter in Gujarat as his daughter. A user named Janardhan Mishra wrote “when Nitish Kumar Told Ishrat Jahan as her daughter then only BJP should understood that how big a bigoted secular he is.”

नीतीश कुमार ने जब आतंकी इशरत जहां को अपनी बेटी बताया तभी भाजपा को समझ जाना चाहिए था की ये कितना बड़ावाला दोगला सेक्युलर है pic.twitter.com/nJq1bCJ50G — Janardan Mishra (@janardanmis) August 8, 2022

Janardhan Mishra has also shared a graphical poster with his post. In which various claims have been made about Nitish Kumar. On the other hand, checking the profile of Janardhan Mishra, we found that he has put a picture of PM Narendra Modi in his profile and he has 183 thousand followers.

Fact Check:

To check the viral claim we did some keyword searches on google. We found the report of Navbharat Times published on 15 February 2016. In this report Nitish Kumar has denied that he never called Ishrat Jahan the daughter of Bihar.

Nitish Kumar said I am going through some news clippings and records to know whether I have ever called Ishrat Jahan as the daughter of Bihar. After doing some search in this regard I will take legal actions against those newspapers and channels who put such things in my mouth and say such things. We will take necessary ground preparations and take legal actions against them.

Conclusion :

After checking the claim of the viral video, we got to know that the claim being made by social media user is false. Nitish Kumar had never mentioned Ishrat Jahan as his daughter.

Claim : Nitish Kumar mentioned Ishrat Jahan as her daughter.

Claimed by : Janardhan Mishra and social media user.

Fact check : Fake.