During the lockdown imposed to fight the new coronavirus, many are turning saviours for Indians struggling to get daily essential food items.

However, one viral video appears to tell a different story. In it, it seems as though a man at a grocery shop is trying to exchange or sell the extra rations donated to him.

The man can be heard saying to the shopkeeper that he has around 200 kg of donated food grains, and that he wants to exchange it for other items, such as soap and shampoo. The archived version of the video can be seen here.

advertisement

The video is circulating on WhatsApp groups in India, and people are wondering where it's from. Some are sharing the video on social media with different claims.

But India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video isn't from India, but from Pakistan.

AFWA INVESTIGATION

We found several clues in the video that hint that it must be from Pakistan.

1. A closer look reveals boxes and packets of 'Pakiza' and 'Shan'. Both are popular spice brands in Pakistan. Shan spices are also available in India, but in different packaging.

2. The hoarding of a nearby shop has only Urdu text on it. In India, it is very rare for a shop board to have only Urdu text -- generally, it's also accompanied by Hindi, or a local language.

When we searched with keywords about similar news from Pakistan, we came across several reports suggesting that such incidents of relief materials being sold to retail shops actually took place in Pakistan. It was also recently reported in the Economic Times.

But these reports weren't accompanied by videos.

We used some keywords in Urdu to search for such incidents. We found that some users on YouTube and Facebook uploaded this video with the claim that it's from Lahore or Karachi.

We also found that the Pakistani news channel Capital TV uploaded the video on April 7, 2020. The channel says the video is from Karachi.

Similar incidents have been reported from Karachi, where people have been caught selling donated rations at grocery shops. The Pakistani channel ARY News has reported such an incident.

This evidence establishes that the video is from Karachi, and not from India. A report by Alt News has also concluded that the video is from Pakistan.