A beautiful image of a road is being shared on social media with the claim that it is the much-awaited ring road that connects 53 villages and five districts in Kashmir.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the image to be misleading. The viral picture shows part of the NICE ring road in Bengaluru. The Srinagar ring road project is at the land acquisition stage.

AFWA probe

The e-foundations of Srinagar and Jammu ring road projects were laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May 2018.

However, with the help of reverse image search, we found that the viral picture has been carried by several websites and news reports since 2008 as from Karnataka. In 2018, a Facebook page also shared the picture as a glance of the Bengaluru-Mysore infrastructure corridor.

A similar picture of the same location, but taken from a different angle, was also carried by “Business Insider” in 2014.

Observing the viral image and the one carried by “Business Insider”, we can understand that the road has a water body on one side and a building with a brown roof on the other.

We then searched for the Bengaluru-Mysore infrastructure corridor on Google Maps and Google Earth, and found the same building with brown roof marked as the Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprises (NICE) office. A water body can be seen opposite this structure.

Given below is a view of the same location on Google Earth.

We further checked for images of the NICE office on Google Maps. Comparing these images with the picture in circulation, we can confirm that the building seen in the viral image is indeed the NICE office.

Another image from the same location uploaded by a user on Google Maps gives us a clue that the viral picture might have been shot from the flyover at the NICE Road Cloverleaf junction.

The Srinagar ring road

The NHAI’s ambitious project of Srinagar ring road will traverse through 52 villages and five districts of Pulwama, Budgam, Baramulla, Srinagar and Bandipora.

According to reports, the project is at the stage of land acquisition and not yet complete. Reports say the project is facing delays as many landowners allege they are not given fair compensation by authorities in lieu of land.

Hence, it is clear that the viral picture is of the NICE ring road in Bengaluru and not related to Srinagar.

(Illustrations by Keshav Kapil)

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Old video from Syrian civil war shared as Taliban capturing Kabul presidential palace

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Did CNN praise Taliban for wearing masks during attacks? No, it's satire