On 12 October 2019, a Facebook user named “Vineeth Elson” posted a video with the caption that said, “This is BJP’s Lok Sabha MP and Advocate, Bhanu Pratap Singh. Forward to all Indians 1.3 billion to expose the works of BJP”

In the video, we can hear a person talking to media about the recent PMC bank fraud and describing the plight of account holders. He has accused the government of giving protection to the bank’s president, bank manager and politicians involved in the fraud. While sharing this video on social media, it is being claimed that the person who criticized the government is BJP Lok Sabha MP Bhanu Pratap Singh.

Facebook Post Archive Link

This video is widely circulated on Facebook

We started the investigation by searching BJP MP Bhanu Pratap Singh on Google, as a result of which we got his picture and information on the National Portal of India. On seeing this picture, we came to know that the person shown in the video and the person available on the government website are different. According to the information given on the official website of the Lok Sabha, Bhanu Prasad Singh from BJP represents Jalaun constituency.

Below you can see the comparison between the man seen in the video and the pictures of Bhanu Prasad Singh, who is the real MP from BJP.

After this, we noticed some other things seen in this video; below this video, we saw newsmx.tv and “BJP, RSS देश को बर्बाद करने आए”. We found this video on YouTube through the above keywords, which resulted in the original video. News Mx TV uploaded the original video on 1 October 2019. In the beginning of this video, we can hear the anchor introducing this person as “Advocate Bhanu Pratap Singh”.

After this, we searched “Advocate Bhanu Pratap Singh” on Google, from which we got his Twitter account. According to the information given in the profile, Bhanu Pratap Singh is a lawyer of the Supreme Court as well as the National President of RJSP (Rashtriya Janhit Sangharsh Party).

Below you can see the comparison image between Bhanu Pratap Singh shown in the video, who is actually a Supreme Court advocate and RJSP National President and Bhanu Pratap Singh who is a BJP, MP.

Conclusion: After Fact-Checking, we found this post to be False. The viral video is circulated by referring to a different person than shown in the video. The person shown in the video is Bhanu Pratap Singh who is not a BJP MP but he is the National President of R.J.S.P.