As election heat rises in Rajasthan, political leaders are sweating it out to reap maximum benefits before the D-Day. Social media is also flooded with all sorts of political drama and disclosures.

A video, which has caught the eyes of many on the internet, shows a motley group of people thrashing a man allegedly claimed to be a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Bandikui in Dausa district of Rajasthan. The state goes to polls on December 7.

advertisement

In the video, which appears to be from a political party meeting, a scuffle breaks out among workers. The fight soon turns violent and the workers can be seen thrashing a man clad in a white kurta-pyjama.

The viral video was shared by a Facebook user, Shahid Hussain.

He captioned it: "Rajasthan Bandikui Dausa se BJP pratyashi Ramkishore Saini ki jordaar kutaai... jara sochiye voting vale din kya karne vali hai."

ENGLISH TRANSLATION: 'BJP candidate Ramkishore Saini from Bandikui, Dausa, beaten up black and blue. Just think what will happen on the election day'.

The video has been shared at least 4,000 times and has more than 40,000 views since Tuesday (November 27).

The photo shows the views on the video

India Today Fact Check team found that the man thrashed in the video is not BJP candidate Ramkishore Saini but the late Congress worker from Dausa, Vishwanath Saini. The video dates back to October, 2015. Vishwanath passed away two days ago.

With the help of Intel Techniques, when we searched the video on the internet, it threw results referring the man in this video to Congress worker Vishwanath Saini.

We also found a YouTube video of News18 Hindi where the entire incident was narrated. According to News18 Hindi, some clashes had erupted during a meeting of Congress workers in Dausa in October, 2015 where Congress worker Vishwanath Saini was beaten up.

India Today TV also contacted the BJP candidate from Bandikui assembly seat, Ramkishore Saini, on this matter. Ramkishore told us that the claim in the video is totally false.

Our local correspondent also confirmed us the same. He further told us that the incident took place in Hotel Rawat Palace in Dausa. We reached out to the hotel owner, Manohar Gupta, who confirmed us that the clash happened in his hotel a few years ago.

Hotel Rawat Palace in Rajasthan

(This story has been done as a part of Ekta News Coalition)