It was reported that 30 empty bullet shells were recovered from the crime scene where Punjabi singer and Congress leader Sidhu Moose Wala was shot dead by unidentified assailants on May 29. Several days after the murder at Jawaharke village in Mansa, the investigators are yet to zero in on the assailants.

Meanwhile, a video has gone viral on social media with the claim that it showed the ambush by the killers on Moose Wala. "Waheguru ji, see how the killers of Moose Wala attacked him," the translation of a Punjabi Facebook post that shared the video read.

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The footage isn't real but clipped from an action series streaming online.

AFWA Probe

When the keyframes of the video were reverse searched on Google, several YouTube videos were found.

The top result, uploaded on August 31, 2021, was titled "Gangster gun fire attitude WhatsApp status."

Another user, who had uploaded the video on May 27, 2021, had said it showed an attack on Neeraj Bawana. Neeraj is a notorious gangster who is serving his term in the Tihar jail and allegedly has networks across Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan.

This confirmed that the video is not the footage of the fatal ambush on the murdered singer and politician as it is available online for over a year now.

While the visuals looked very dramatic to be original, the search showed no hints to locate its origin. We chose to check the comments below all YouTube links that featured the clip. In this way, it was found a person had mentioned the name of the web series "Shukla The Tiger" as a comment to the video on a channel called "WhatsApp Status".

When checked, it was found that "Shukla The Tiger" is a Hindi action web series streaming on MX Player since 2021. As the artist from the trailer looked similar to the man in the viral video, we checked the web series.

Six minutes into the eighth episode of the series named "Ek Dhokha", a shootout erupts between two rival groups. We noticed that the Bolero SUV and the dress of the men seen firing at the rivals are the same as that in the video. A comparison can be seen below.

This helped us confirm that the viral video being shared as the attack on slain singer-politician Sidhu Moose Wala is not real. It is a scene from a web series called "Shukla The Tiger".

(With inputs from Yash Mittal in New Delhi)