A video of a woman saying something to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in a flight has gone viral on social media.

It is being claimed that the Kashmiri people told Rahul Gandhi that PM Narendra Modi is doing good work for them and he must go back.

However, the audio of the viral video has been tampered with.

@narendramodi @AmitShah @BJP4India @BJP4Bengal ??Kashmir people in flight to Rahul:

Modi is doing good for us. Why do you want to visit Kashmir and trouble us. Please go back.! pic.twitter.com/tEyWd3v3EJ ????????? ?????? (@bansal1312) August 27, 2019

advertisement

India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the woman in the viral video was narrating her ordeal to Rahul Gandhi. She was not asking him to go back.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The video is viral on Facebook and Twitter with the caption, "Kashmir people in flight to Rahul: Modi is doing good for us. Why do you want to visit Kashmir and trouble us. Please go back!"

Though one can hear the woman in some of the viral videos but in some other viral videos on Twitter, her voice has been tampered with.

The incident took place when a Kashmiri woman confronted Rahul Gandhi who was on-board the same flight in which the delegation of opposition leaders was returning to Delhi from Srinagar on Saturday (August 24).

Many prominent media houses covered the incident. In the video, she can be heard saying, "They are small kids, we want to see them. My brother is a heart patient, he stepped out to look for his kids, but his family member had no idea where he is for the past 10 days. We are in trouble."

The Congress general secretary in-charge of eastern Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi, had also tweeted the video on Sunday.

How long is this going to continue?This is one out of millions of people who are being silenced and crushed in the name of "Nationalism".



For those who accuse the opposition of 'politicising' this issue: https://t.co/IMLmnTtbLb Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) August 25, 2019

A delegation of 12 opposition leaders and Rahul Gandhi had reached Kashmir on August 24 to know the ground reality in the Valley, but, they were not allowed to move out of the Srinagar airport and were sent back to Delhi in an evening flight.

Thus, it is clear that the woman in the video was not asking Rahul Gandhi to go back and was narrating how the lives of people had been affected after the abrogation of Article 370 and the lockdown in the Valley.