A video of a couple with 15 children went viral with the claim that this Muslim family was from India.

Many Facebook users shared the video, calling it a good reason to implement a population control law in India.

In April, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya opposed Bharatiya Janata Party MP Rakesh Sinha’s 2019

private member’s Bill which sought to enforce a two-child rule with penal provisions for violations. Mandaviya told Rajya Sabha that instead of using “force”, the government successfully used awareness and health campaigns to achieve population control. Sinha withdrew the Bill following this.

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that this family was not from India but from Pakistan. Recently, a Pakistani news channel Leader TV featured the family in a show to highlight how families lived in poverty in Lahore’s slums.

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA Probe

The 25-second-long viral video contained a logo of Leader TV at the bottom-right corner. One could also see a female anchor with a microphone in her hand talking to the family.

We searched for the Leader TV and found the channel on Facebook, Instagram and on YouTube. Leader TV is a Pakistani media house that reports on current affairs and entertainment.

We found the longer version of the video on its Facebook page. It showed a Pakistani family with 15 children being interviewed. It was shared on April 11. The Facebook caption in Urdu read, “Why do the families who live in slums have more children? Let’s find out”

This video was also on Leader TV’s YouTube channel and its Instagram page.

The show’s anchor Anee Faisal said in the video that this family lived in the slums. The show pointed out that this large family lived was happy and content despite financial hardships.

The couple in the news feature said they had fifteen children in sixteen years of marriage. The man said that he was a daily wage labourer and earned between Rs. 400 and Rs. 500 per day.

Thus, we concluded that this family containing fifteen children was not from India. This Pakistani family’s video was shared to bat for a population control law.