A short video clip of a race between auto-rickshaws is shared on social media with the claim that it is from India. The caption along with the video says, “India’s version of Formula One Race.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The video in question is from a “Red Bull Tuk It” event in Sri Lanka.

advertisement

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

When we did a reverse image search of keyframes of the video, we found a longer version of the same event uploaded on a YouTube channel called “RallySport Magazine” on June 30. The title of the video says, “A rallying alternative? Tuk It racing in Sri Lanka”.

We also found the same video in a news report by “The Financial Express” on June 12, 2020.

According to the article, the video is from “Red Bull Tuk It”, a two-day auto-rickshaw race organised by Red Bull in Sri Lanka. Red Bull is an Austrian energy drink manufacturer.

We also checked the official website of Red Bull. According to the site, it had indeed organised a two-day auto-rickshaw race in Sri Lanka this year.

Upon closer observation, we also found ‘Red Bull Tuk It’ logos on the auto-rickshaws in the video in circulation. Also, the number plates of the auto-rickshaws in the video do not match with Indian vehicle registration numbers.

The same video was also uploaded by Reuters on its official Twitter handle on June 3, 2020, as from Sri Lanka.

It’s all spills and thrills as daring Sri Lankan tuk tuk drivers put their three-wheeled vehicles to the test in a grueling course through city streets and off-road jungle terrain pic.twitter.com/rtF8ci1Qvd— Reuters (@Reuters) July 3, 2020

According to a report by “International Business Times”, Red Bull has not yet conducted a “Tuk It” event in India. However, India has several other auto-rickshaw races like “The Rickshaw Challenge” that started in 2006.

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is from an auto-rickshaw race organised by Red Bull in Sri Lanka and it is not related to India.