A picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi wearing a keffiyeh, a kind of Muslim headgear, during his recent visit to Saudi Arabia is going viral on social media. It is being claimed that Modi wore the keffiyeh upon his arrival in Riyadh to impress the Saudi king.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral photo is photoshopped. In the original photograph, PM Modi is not seen wearing the keffiyeh.

advertisement

Facebook user Avanish Mishra posted the image with a claim in Hindi, which translates to, Money is not God, but it is no lesser than God (especially once you have become a beggar). Hindu Hriday Samrat @narendramodi dressing up to get investment in an economy destroyed by him. (Bhakts, don’t mind)

The archived version of the post can be seen here . The post is quite viral on Facebook and Twitter .

To verify the claim, we ran a reverse search on the viral image and found the original one. PM Modi had tweeted the images on Tuesday (October 29) mentioning that he had landed in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

Landed in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, marking the start of an important visit aimed at strengthening ties with a valued friend. Will be taking part in a wide range of programmes during this visit. pic.twitter.com/3MskcllePr Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) October 28, 2019



The Prime Minister’s Office had also tweeted the images after Modi on Monday landed in Riyadh’s King Khalid International Airport. He was welcomed by Riyadh Governor Prince Faisal bin Bandar Al Saud at the airport.

The Prime Minister landed in Saudi Arabia a short while ago. pic.twitter.com/l6WSNbsh7U PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 28, 2019

One of these images have been photoshopped and posted on social media. One can see that in the original image, PM Modi is not wearing anything on his head.

PM Modi’s two-day visit to the Kingdom has been covered by prominent media houses. In 2011, during a Sadbhavana fast in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad, then chief minister Modi had refused to put on a skull cap offered by a Muslim cleric. This incident had become the talk of the town and many prominent media houses ad published the news. However, later on, Modi had visited many mosques The viral picture of PM Modi wearing a keffiyeh during his recent visit to Saudi Arabia is photoshopped. Also read: Fact Check: All that glitters is not Diwali Also read: Fact Check: Is this fingerprint-shaped building for real?