Spread the truth:

A post is doing rounds on social media platforms with a caption that reads –

“किस-किस को पता था सीएम योगी ने आज तक एक भी रुपया वेतन नहीं लिया है।”

Translation –

“Who all knew CM Yogi has not taken a single rupee salary till date.“

Claim:

Netizens are sharing the viral post claiming that the incumbent Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, ‘Yogi Adityanath,’ has not taken a single penny as salary.

Facebook

The viral post has caused quite a stir on Facebook. A Facebook user named ‘Ashok Pandey‘ posted the viral post on a public group named ‘योगी आदित्यनाथ जी के फैन (ग्रुप),‘ and his post had already garnered over eight thousand likes at the time of writing this news report.

archive

Another Facebook user ‘Harish Dhusiya‘ also posted the viral post on a public group named ‘JOIN RSS ( संघ से जुड़ें ),’ his post had amassed more than a thousand likes at the time of writing this news report.

archive

archive

Facebook is rife with the viral claim, and several other users are also sharing the viral post.

Twitter

This is not the very first time this claim is doing rounds on social media, many Twitter users had tweeted the viral claim back in the year 2019.

किस-किस को पता था

सीएम योगी ने आज तक एक भी रुपया वेतन नहीं लिया है।

👇

!! योगी हमारा अभिमान !! — Piyush Kumar #प्रशासक_समिति (@PiyushK02802812) September 14, 2019

archive

archive

Truth

The viral claim is false and misleading.

Using relevant keywords, we searched on Google but did not find a single news report from any news media outlet, confirming that CM Yogi Adityanath does not take his salary. Using relevant keywords, we then searched on Youtube as well and stumbled upon a one minute and thirty-one seconds long video uploaded by the news channel ‘News 18 India,’ the title of the video reads –

“क्या हैं योगी का पसंदीदा खाना और कहां खर्च करते हैं सैलरी?”

Translation –

“What is Yogi’s favourite dish and where does he spend his salary?”

At the 41st second of the video the interviewer Rahul Joshi asks –

“एक योगी को हर महीने के आखिरी में एक तनख्वाह मिलती है, एक सैलरी मिलती है उस सैलरी का आप क्या करते हैं?”

Translation – “A Yogi gets a salary at the end of every month, what do you do with that salary?”

To which CM Yogi Adityanath responds by saying –

“ज्यादातर पैसा मेरा जो है किसी न किसी को देने में खर्च हो जाता है लेकिन उद्घाटन नहीं कर पाता हूं और न करना चाहिए क्योंकि पैसा, बहुत सारे ज़रूरतमंद होते हैं, आपने देखा होगा जनता दर्शन के समय बहुत सारे लोग आते हैं, किसी को फीस की आवश्यकता है, किसी को किसी अन्य कार्य के लिए उपचार की आवश्यकता है, किसी को अन्य, अगर हम शासन के माध्यम से नहीं दे सकते हैं तो व्यक्तिगत स्तर पर दे सकते हैं तो व्यक्तिगत रूप से फिर उन लोगों को मैं अपने स्तर पर सहयोग करता हूं ।”

Translation –

“Most of my money is spent in giving to someone but I am not able to divulge and should not because there are many needy people, you must have seen many people come at the time of Janta Darshan, someone needs money for fee payment, someone needs money for treatment, someone needs money for another purpose. If we can’t provide them through the government then we can give them at the personal level, therefore individually, I try to help them out at my personal level.”

The one minute and thirty-one seconds long video that we found is a snippet from the 52 minutes and 35 seconds long interview.

After watching the video clip we ascertained that Yogi Adityanath takes his salary as the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh and could conclude that the viral claim is false. In addition to that, we also searched on Google and managed to discover many news reports that also confirmed that the viral claim being spread regarding Yogi Adityanath is fake. These news reports are based on an affidavit submitted by CM Yogi Adityanath himself to the returning officer for the UP Council bypolls in September 2019. The news reports can be accessed here here here here.

We also came across a news report from the Hindustan Times titled ‘Yogi Adityanath donates Rs 2.5 lakh from his salary account to party.’ The news report also acts as a piece of concrete evidence that Yogi Adityanath has a salary account. The news report can be accessed here.

We also searched on a website named ‘myneta.info‘ that stores a lot of financial information of numerous politicians. We searched for Yogi Adityanath on the website and found the details pertaining to his financial information. All the information available on the website is based on Yogi Adityanath’s self-declared affidavit filed during elections. The detailed report in regards to his financial information and other profile-related information can be accessed here. MyNeta.info is an open data depository platform run by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR).

During our investigation, we discovered a news report from ‘The Lallantop‘ regarding the same viral claim titled ‘पड़ताल: क्या योगी आदित्यनाथ ने आज तक एक रुपया वेतन नहीं लिया?.’ It can be accessed here.

Related