A Facebook post with a picture of a man in suicide vest is going viral on social media. The post calimed that a huge cache of explosives, suicide vests, time bombs, alarm clocks, mobile phones, SIM cards and cash were recovered from the raids. India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the post to be misleading.

In the backdrop of communal violence in the Capital, a Facebook post with a picture of a man in suicide vest is going viral on social media. The claim along with the image says the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Uttar Pradesh police raided a few places in Delhi’s Seelampur and UP’s Amroha and arrested 16 people, including students and clerics.

advertisement

Facebook user Deepak Kumar posted the man’s picture with a claim in Hindi, saying a huge cache of explosives, suicide vests, time bombs, alarm clocks, mobile phones, SIM cards and cash were recovered from the raids. He said this was the reason Doval was roaming the lanes of Delhi.

National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval recently visited several localities in violence-hit northeast Delhi. This was reported widely by the mainstream media.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the post to be misleading. The viral image of the man in suicide vest is at least 10 years old and from Afghanistan. The long narrative regarding the NIA raid is also a two-year-old incident and has no connection to the recent incidents of violence in Delhi.

Till the filing of this story, the post was shared over 200 times. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

With the help of TinEye reverse image search, we found that the picture was viral since 2010.

As per news reports of 2010, the man in the viral image was a Taliban suicide bomber, arrested by Afghan security forces from Farah province.

Searching the Internet about NIA raids in Delhi’s Seelampur and UP’s Amroha as mentioned in the viral post, we found news reports related to this incident published in several websites in 2018.

As per BBC Hindi and Outlook Hindi, the NIA, along with UP police, busted an ISIS module and arrested 10 people after raiding 17 places in Delhi and UP.

Hence, it is clear that the viral post is completely misleading, as the image and narration used in it are old and have no connection to the recent incidents of violence in Delhi.