A video is becoming increasingly viral on social media. It can be seen in this video that a temple is being demolished by a bulldozer, while women and devotees standing nearby are crying over the temple being demolished. Users sharing this video are claiming that another temple was demolished by the DMK government of Tamil Nadu.

Sharing this video, a user wrote – “Another temple has been demolished by DMK government in Kalapatti, Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu. The CM of TN, who is known as the “Kingdom of Temples”, who is himself a Christian, has demolished many such big and old temples in the state. Women are crying. They have nothing to do more than cry. See.”

At the same time, this video has also been shared by many other users.

तामिलनाडु में कोयम्बतूर के कालापट्टी में DMK सरकार द्वारा एक और मंदिर तोड़ दिया गया है।

"मंदिरों का राज्य" कहलाने वाले TN के CM ने, जो कि खुद ईसाई हैं, राज्य के ऐसे कई बड़े और पुराने मंदिर ध्वस्त कर दिए हैं।

औरतें रो रही है.

रोने से अधिक करने के लिए कुछ नहीं है इनके पास।

देखिए 👇 pic.twitter.com/WYw6qlFQIF — जय ज्वालामुखी (@Jwalamukhi1008) August 5, 2022 https://twitter.com/Jwalamukhi1008/status/1555531545443676161?s=20&t=LVmXkHt_apc2P5QykR_A-A

Fact Check:

To check the veracity of the video going viral, we did some keyword searches on Google. We found a report published on the website of the English newspaper ‘The Hindu’. It was told in this report that the temple was demolished following the orders of the Madras High Court. The report also mentioned that the 50-feet wide Veeriyampalayam road was being blocked due to illegal occupation, following which the Madras High Court, based on a complaint from a local citizen, ordered the removal of the illegal occupation.

At the same time, when we did a Google search about knowing the religion of Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin, the fact came to the fore that Stalin considers himself an atheist.

Conclusion:

It is coming out from our fact check that the temple has been demolished after the High Court’s decision. Officials said that they are taking action on the order of the High Court. Hence the claim being made by social media users is misleading.

Claim Review- Tamil Nadu Christian CM Stalin demolished Shiva temple

Claimed by- Social media users

Fact Check – Misleading