The video is old and shows an Israeli airstrike destroying a tower in Gaza in May 2021. It has no relation with the ongoing Ukraine Russia war.

A video showing missile air strike on a huge multi-storeyed is widely circulating on social media with the claim that Russian launched three missiles to demolish the building of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence and it was razed to the ground. This video is being shared with the context of the ongoing Ukraine Russia war.

What is written in the video?

The caption of the post reads, “Three missiles, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence building was instantly razed to the ground.

Before the Russian troops launched the missile, they did two strange things:

1. Notify foreign reporters to shoot nearby

2. Notify all people in the building to evacuate.

The missile accurately blasted the ground floor and caused the building to collapse, and finally shot the middle

*Not an indiscriminate shooting, it is purely to shock Ukraine!”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image and keyword search on Google with one of the screenshot of the video. The results led us to the same video published by ABC News on 14 May 2021 with the caption “Video shows the moment an Israeli airstrike hit and levelled the 14-story Al-Shorouk Tower in Gaza amid an escalating conflict between Israel and Hamas.”

Video shows the moment an Israeli airstrike hit and leveled the 14-story Al-Shorouk Tower in Gaza amid an escalating conflict between Israel and Hamas. https://t.co/Zwdwp29nE2 pic.twitter.com/O3xPEoCR20 — ABC News (@ABC) May 13, 2021

According to CNN News, CNN photojournalist Ibrahim Dahman who witnessed the event said that an Israeli airstrike destroyed Al-Shorouk Tower in Gaza. This is the third high-rise building to be destroyed by the IDF since the escalation of violence began on May 10, 2021. It was not immediately clear if there were any casualties. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports.

According to Middle East Eye, an air strike hit the 16-storey al-Shorouk tower in the al-Rimal area, west of Gaza City. The building in Gaza, which housed local and foreign media outlets as well as shops and apartments, was previously hit by a missile strike during Israel’s attack on Gaza in 2014.

#BREAKING Footage of the collapse of the 16-story Al Shorouk tower in Gaza after Israeli air strikes. The residential building also housed local and foreign media outlets. pic.twitter.com/EthJqRD2WO — Middle East Eye (@MiddleEastEye) May 12, 2021

We searched for news reports related to the Russian air forces destroying the building of Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, we could not find any news report that corroborated the same.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video on social media to be False. The video shows an Israeli airstrike destroying a tower in Gaza in 2021. The video does not show the Russian air forces destroying the building of Ukrainian Ministry of Defence.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)