An image trying to pass off as the front page of the New York Times featuring Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his recent official visit to the United States, has been created as a piece of satire.

The photo, which went viral on social media and WhatsApp over the weekend, contains inaccuracies and other text which point out that the image was created as satire.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi concluded an official visit to the United States on September 27, 2021. The prime minister met with US President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris and CEOs, in Washington DC. Modi also attended the QUAD leaders' summit and addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York.

ALSO READ: No, NYT Did Not Publish A Crocodile In Tears Photo After PM Modi Cried

ALSO READ: Viral Message Falsely Claims NYT Editor Praised PM Modi's Foreign Policy

In this context, the fabricated image has gone viral. The photo purports to show the front page of the New York Times has the headline - "LAST, BEST HOPE OF EARTH" and a strapline that reads, "WORLD'S MOST LOVED AND MOST POWERFUL LEADER, IS HERE TO BLESS US," (sic).



The image has been called out by several Indian journalists on Twitter.





Yeah, SET-PEMBER 26 !#ITcell should demand for auto-correct feature on Photoshop 🙃 pic.twitter.com/iF0y2KVbQW — Arvind Gunasekar (@arvindgunasekar) September 26, 2021





However, it is also being shared by supporters of the prime minister, believing it to be real.







Last and Best Hope of Earth..

That's it... pic.twitter.com/0iYX0iuLGf — Arun Rane ॐ (@ArunRane9) September 27, 2021

BOOM received the same viral image on our helpline number (7700906111) from several readers who asked about the authenticity of the image.

FACT CHECK

BOOM found that the viral image was created as satire and contains inaccuracies. It was not immediately clear who was behind the fake image.

Several social media users pointed out that the month in the masthead has been spelt incorrectly. The image shows September spelt as 'Setpember'





Photo Created As Satire



The caption below the photograph of Modi says, "His highness, Modiji is signing on a blank a4 paper to bless our country...har har modi" (sic). This shows that the image was created as satire.





Even the headline 'LAST, BEST HOPE OF EARTH' is intended as sarcasm. The headline in capslock is also different from NYT's style which follows title case in all its headlines. (See image below)

The actual front page of the New York Times for September 26, 2021 can be viewed at the bottom right corner of this link.