A picture circulating on social media shows Rahul Gandhi holding a kid wearing a saffron tshirt with the BJP’s lotus symbol on it. Sharing the image, social media users have taunted the Congress leader with remarks such as, “Confirmed he too must be pressing the button for BJP any doubt?”

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the picture to be morphed. In the original image, the kid is not wearing a t-shirt with the BJP symbol.

advertisement

Using reverse image search, we found that the original picture was tweeted from the official handle of the Indian National Congress on November 3, 2017.

Just a month before the Gujarat assembly elections in 2017, Rahul had gone to meet farmers at Dharampur Chokdi in Valsad, who were facing issues related to land acquisition. The Congress had also tweeted several other pictures of Rahul with farmers and party leaders. The picture in circulation was among them.

CVP Rahul Gandhi at a meeting with farmers in Dharampur Chokdi, who are facing issues of Land Acquisition under BJP. #CongressAveChhe pic.twitter.com/SMEsLaqjFG — Congress (@INCIndia) November 3, 2017

In the original picture, the kid is seen wearing a funky tshirt without any party logo.

In his public rallies, Rahul had then alleged that land acquisition from farmers was the biggest corruption in the BJP government. He’d even promised to change land acquisition laws in Gujarat if voted to power.

Farmers who’d lost their lands or received notices for land acquisition met Rahul with their grievances. Most of the farmers alleged that their lands were being taken without consent for projects such as Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC), Vapi-Vadodara Expressway and Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train corridor.

Hence, we can see that a four-year-old image of Rahul holding a kid is being circulated with misleading claims.

Also read: Fact Check: Social media’s Tata twist to Air India’s Bhangra moves

Also read: Fact Check: This video of garbage floating on waterlogged streets is not from Chennai