Despite the pandemic and a dearth of tourists, hoteliers and developers across the globe are still angling to create the best of the best. The travellers' demand for a luxury hotel stay also seems to be never-ending.

Amid this, an image of a tall luxury building has been shared on social media with the claim: "The World's Tallest Hotel Abraj Kudai with 10,000 rooms, 70 Restaurants and 5 Rooftop Helipads in Mecca, #SaudiArabia.(sic)"

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this claim is misleading. Firstly, Abraj Kudai is yet to be opened to the public.

Secondly, given the height of the hotel and the number of rooms it would have, this hotel in Mecca will become the largest hotel in the world once it opens but still won't break the record for the tallest hotel.

The archived versions of posts with similar claims can be seen here, here, here.

AFWA Probe

While investigating the claim, we first conducted a reverse image search and found out that the photo shared on Facebook is indeed of Hotel Abraj Kudai.

A 2015 article published by The Guardian carries the same photograph. The article states that when the hotel would open it would become the world's largest hotel.

Several other media houses have published articles saying that with 10,000 rooms Abraj Kudai would be the largest hotel in the world after its opening.

In August 2009, Forbes published an article quoting Hannah Ortman, Head of Record Management at Guinness, that Hotel Abraj Kudai would eventually break the world record for the largest hotel when it opens in 2021.

Taking a cue from this, we did a keyword search to find out which is the largest hotel in the world at present.

According to the Guinness Book of World Records (https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/69317-largest-hotel), presently the largest hotel in the world is First World Hotel in Pahang Darul Makmur, Malaysia with 7,351 rooms.

The Guinness Book of World Record ( https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/tallest-hotel ) also states that presently, the tallest hotel in the world is Gevora Hotel located in Dubai, UAE. This hotel is 356.33 metres high.

Recently, CNN and several other media reported that the J Hotel Shanghai Tower in Shanghai would make the new record to be the tallest hotel in the world. The hotel opened on June 19 is 600 metre high.

advertisement

On the contrary, (https://www.skyscrapercenter.com/building/abraj-kudai-t6a-and-t6b/18181 ) the height of Hotel Abraj Kudai would only be around 230 metres.

Therefore, we can conclude that Hotel Abraj Kudai has the potential to be the largest hotel in the world. But, given its present design and structure, it won't be the tallest hotel in the world.