A social media post attributing purported comments to Bollywood actor Aamir Khan is being widely circulated across social media platforms. The English translation of the viral comments reads ‘it is better to fill the stomach of a poor person than to offer milk on Shiva ling.’ Through this article let’s fact-check the veracity of the claim made in the post.

Claim: ‘It is better to fill the stomach of a poor person than to offer milk on Shiva ling’ – Aamir Khan. Fact: Aamir Khan never made these comments in real life calling out people for wasting milk on idols. There are no reports of attributing such comments to Aamir Khan. However, another actor Akshay Kumar made similar comments on multiple occasions in the past. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

Google search with relevant keywords did not yield any such reports attributing these comments to Aamir Khan. Had Aamir Khan indeed made these comments, media would have reported it, however, we could not find any such reports.

Even earlier, similar comments were attributed to the actor (here & here), alleging that Aamir Khan insulted Lord Shiva by saying ‘not to waste milk on idols’ in the Satyameva Jayate show. However, Aamir Khan did not make these comments in any of the episodes (here & here).

However, in one scene of Aamir Khan’s 2014 film ‘PK’, it is portrayed that instead of feeding milk to the Shiva lingam, the hunger of poor children could be satisfied. But in real life, he never made these comments. Similar viewpoint on questioning the bathing of Shiva ling with milk, instead of providing it to the poor was mentioned in other movies like ‘Oh My God’ too.

Also, during the time of film PK’s release when there was criticism against Aamir Khan saying he insulted Hindu beliefs, he himself clarified that he never insulted any religion in the movie and he has utmost respect for Lord Shiva.

However, another Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar made similar comments in the past (here, here & here). On multiple occasions, he called out people for wasting milk and oil on idols. He instead opined that these could used to feed the poor.

To sum it up, Aamir Khan did not call out people for wasting milk on idols.