A picture of men performing Islamic prayer is going viral on the social media platform. Further, sharing the pics users claim that this picture is from the Youth Congress office inauguration in Karnataka. Sharing the picture Anand Srivastava wrote which can be nearly translated into English, ” Modi and Yogi Ji’s sanskaras inspire us to give the vote to BJP. But, the opposition’s sanskaras compel us to vote for the BJP.

Similarly, many other social media users shared this picture with mocking comments.

FactCheck

On our FactCheck analysis, we found that netizens are sharing this picture with misleading claims. We found a tweet on the official page of @IYCKarnataka. In the tweet, we can see the collage of many pictures, one of which is the viral picture. Also, the English translation of the caption of the tweet is, “The new President @nalapad of the Karnataka Region Youth Congress office at the Congress House today worshiped and prayed. The legislator Shri @mlanaharis and senior leader Shri N.A. Several Congress leaders, including Mohammed, were present.”

Moreover, Nalapad also uploaded the same picture on his handle. Along with the picture, he wrote, “Prayers and prayers were held today at the Karnataka Region Youth Congress office at the Congress House. @mlanaharis legislator Mr. Several Congress leaders, including Mohammed, were present.

The viral picture does show the visual of Nalapad attending the Islamic prayer. But, from the above snaps, we can also see that he attended a Havan also. Therefore, it is clear that he is not promoting any religion over another. Hence, Anand Srivastava’s and other users’ claim regarding the picture is misleading.

Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput Dead But Trending Everyday On Twitter

Conclusion

Religion is a matter of faith. Moreover, in every religion rituals and sacraments are done to thank God. Methods may be different but the motto is the same. Sadly, some people try to do politics in the name of religion. DFRAC, request our readers not to believe in such misleading claims to fulfill their propaganda.