Correction: A reader alerted us that the viral tweet is not morphed but three-year-old posted in an entirely different context. When we checked again, we found that Modi actually did this tweet on 13th July 2016 after the death of his friend Dr. Praful Bhai Doshi. We have modified the headline and the text of the story, accordingly.

Did Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweet that his endless joy turned into endless grief after Devendra Fadnavis resigned as chief minister of Maharashtra on Tuesday?

advertisement

Facebook page BJP Exposed posted an image of what looks like a collage of two screenshots of tweets by PM Modi. The first tweet read, Congratulations to @Dev_Fadnavis Ji and @AjitPawarSpeaks Ji on taking oath as the CM and Deputy CM of Maharashtra respectively. I am confident they will work diligently for the bright future of Maharashtra.

The second tweet in Hindi can be translated as, "I realised today how sometimes endless joy turns to endless grief." The caption along with the image says, "First reaction of PM Modi after the resignation of CM Fadnavis."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the post to be misleading. The tweet where the PM was talking about joy and grief on the same day has nothing to do with political events in Maharashtra. He tweeted this three years ago on 13th July 2016 after the death of his close friend Dr. Praful Bhai Doshi. Dr. Doshi was a veteran RSS leader from Gujarat.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

AFWA probe

Checking the Twitter account of PM Modi , we found that he had indeed posted a congratulatory message for Devendra Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar on November 23, after they were sworn in as CM and deputy CM of Maharashtra by the Governor BS Koshyari.

Fadnavis had to resign on November 26 as he fell short of the numbers required to form the government. On that day, the PM made several tweets but nothing as seen in the viral post.

It is clear that the three-year-old tweet of Modi was linked to Maharashtra just to mislead people.

Also read: Fact Check: Is Bill Gates the son of a woodcutter?

Also read: Fact Check: Don’t believe this sweet story about apples in Norway