Have the number of Coronavirus positive cases crossed 59 in Nagpur? Is a doctor in Nagpur battling for life due to Coronavirus? Social media posts, especially an audio clip has been going viral claiming exactly this.

The claim

Facebook user Dishank Bais uploaded a long post and claimed that a doctor is on a ventilator and in Nagpur 59 people have been found to be coronavirus positive. The archived version of the post can be seen here. Similarly, an audio clip is also being widely shared in which a conversation between two people has them casting aspersions on the testing labs and claiming that there are three doctors who have Coronavirus of them one, 'Dr Kamlesh' is on ventilator.

advertisement

The Truth

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that there are 5 coronavirus positive patients in Nagpur and there is no doctor who is on the ventilator. The audio clipping is fake and the government is investigating who made and circulated it.

5 Coronavirus patients in Nagpur

There are many news reports on the internet which have stated the latest statistics. The first case of Coronavirus positive case came to Nagpur on March 11 and since then 3 IT professionals and 1 housewife have been admitted and are getting treated for Coronavirus in Nagpur. On March 26, one more patient was found to be Coronavirus positive who is also not a doctor.

AFWA also spoke to the Nagpur Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Munde who confirmed that Coronavirus tests are being done at Indira Gandhi Govt Medical College (Meyo Hospital) in Nagpur and they do have the best facilities. "The medical tests are being conducted by expert doctors, so any doubt about the tests is like ridiculing the efforts of dedicated healthcare workers and administration," said Munde. He added that the health of all the patients is improving.

The Press Information Bureau of the Government of India too tweeted and said that "An audio clip is circulating on social media claiming that Nagpur has tested 59 positive coronavirus cases including 3 doctors. The assertion made in the audio is fake. Please do not forward such fake audio clips."

Meanwhile, Maharashtra government has also decided to investigate who made the clip and circulated it. Principal secretary Bhushan Gagrani said, "This is fake. We will hand this over to cyber cell to investigate."

Thus it is clear that what is being discussed in the audio clip is not true. The number of Coronavirus positive cases in Nagpur is only 5 and not 59. There are no Doctors who are found to be Coronavirus positive till the filing of this story.

(With inputs from Kaushal Pandey from Nagpur)

Also Read | Clashes during lockdown: Don't force us to call Army, says Maharashtra Dy CM Ajit Pawar

Also Read | Coronavirus outbreak: Maharsahtra govt won't tolerate attacks on cops, health workers, says Ajit Pawar

Also Watch | Covid-19: 1st death in Kashmir, another in Maharashtra due to coronavirus