A collage of three photographs showing bundles of currencies along with some policemen is going viral on social media with the claim that fake notes were recovered from the car of an RSS supporter in Gujarat.

Several Facebook pages such as "Aam Admi Zindabad" and "Mobile Technology" shared the post with a caption in Hindi that translates to, "Bundles of fake notes seized from Gujarat. And they were seized from the car of loyal RSS worker Ketan Dave."

advertisement

Both pages later deleted the posts but their archived versions can be seen here and here.

Viral Facwebook post

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the post to be misleading. The images used in the viral post are not from Gujarat but Telangana.

In a different incident, in 2017, a financier named Ketan Dave was indeed arrested in Gujarat's Rajkot in a case of cheating. Fake currency notes were later seized from his car, but there is no concrete evidence to link him to RSS.

The post has been shared by thousands of users on Facebook. A similar post can also be found in Bengali.

Other Facebook posts

THE TELANGANA SEIZURE

With the help of reverse image search, we found these viral images in a couple of newspaper reports. As per "Telangana Today" and "The Times of India", on November 2, 2019, Telangana Police nabbed a gang of five men and seized fake currency notes worth more than Rs 6 crore in Khammam.

IS THERE A GUJARAT CONNECTION?

Searching the internet using keywords such as "Kiran Dave, Gujarat, fake notes", we found that a similar incident took place in Gujarat's Rajkot in 2017.

According to news reports, fake currency notes worth Rs 3.92 crore in Rs 2,000 denominations were seized from a car belonging to Rajkot-based financier Ketan Dave, who was lodged in jail in a cheating case. The currency notes were suspected to be printed by Dave.

The incident was reported by "Financial Express", "Live Hindustan" and other national and local media.

We have not found any news report confirming Dave's connection with RSS.

Hence, it is found that two separate incidents were woven with a misleading narrative to create this viral post. Images from Telangana were passed off as Gujarat and the claim about an RSS connection with the incident is also untrue.