While addressing a question asked by Rahul Kanwal in India Today Conclave, Former Union Minister of Minority Affairs, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that around 33% of beneficiaries under PM-KISAN Samman Nidhi, and 36% under Mudra Yojana, have been Muslims.”

Naqvi was talking about how PM Modi’s schemes have benefited the Muslim community by quoting some numbers from a survey that he said was recently conducted. At 26:40 mins of the above video, he can be heard saying, “33% of Muslims benefited from the PM-KISAN Samman Nidhi Yojna, likewise 36 Cr people were benefited by MUDRA Yojana in which 36% were Muslims.

Meanwhile, Author Anand Ranganathan tweeted a thread. In which he praised the work of the Modi government, especially in the context of Muslim minorities. Sharing a clip of Naqvi’s statement, he wrote, “Here is Minister @naqvimukhtar admitting, that while our Muslim population is 14.2%, as many as 31.3% of homes under Awas Yojana, 33% of funds under Kisan Samman Nidhi, and 36% beneficiaries under Mudra Yojana, have been Muslims. BUT MODI IS ANTI-MUSLIM.”

Here is Minister @naqvimukhtar admitting, that while our Muslim population is 14.2%, as many as 31.3% of homes under Awas Yojana, 33% of funds under Kisan Samman Nidhi, and 36% beneficiaries under Mudra Yojana, have been Muslims.



BUT MODI IS ANTI-MUSLIM. pic.twitter.com/1UX4KndClR — Anand Ranganathan (@ARanganathan72) July 5, 2022

Fact Check

In the answers to the Lok Sabha unstarred Question No. 2364, allocation under PMMY, it is mentioned that Community/Religion-based data under PMMY is not centrally maintained.

allcoation under PMMY

Similarly, in the answers to the Lok Sabha unstarred Question No. 2671, PM KISAN beneficiaries, it is mentioned that the Religion of the beneficiaries is not captured in the scheme database. In these documents, it is clearly mentioned that there is no religion-based data for both the scheme which is maintained centrally.

PM-KISAN Beneficiaries

Moreover, Asaduddin Owaisi have shared Sharing these two pictures with the caption, “Modi sarkar’s lies were caught again. I asked govt for the number of Muslim beneficiaries of Mudra Yojana & PM-KISAN. @naqvimukhtar said that 36% of Mudra Yojana’s funds & 33% of PM-KISAN funds went to minorities. But govt says it has no such data. Kiska saath, kaisa vikas?!”

Modi sarkar’s lies caught again. I asked govt for the number of Muslim beneficiaries of Mudra Yojana & PM-KISAN. @naqvimukhtar said that 36% of Mudra Yojana’s funds & 33% of PM-KISAN funds went to minorities. But govt says it has no such data. Kiska saath, kaisa vikas?! pic.twitter.com/LQbpDuJwBG — Asaduddin Owaisi (@asadowaisi) August 3, 2022

Also Read: Did 5G spectrum auctions suffer a record loss of Rs. 2.8 lakh Cr?

Conclusion

Naqvi in the interview also doesn’t give the source of the survey from which he was quoting those numbers. And, there is no record maintained by the center of the numbers quoted by Naqvi about Muslim Beneficiaries of PMMY and PM- KISAN. As such data are not maintained on the basis of religion, the claim of Naqvi is deceptive.