A video of a man admiring Prime Minister Narendra Modi for reducing corruption has been creating a buzz on social media. It was claimed that the man in the video is Congress MLA Anil Upadhyay from Madhya Pradesh.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the man in the video is neither Anil Upadhyay nor associated with any political party.

advertisement

The archived version of the viral post can be seen here.

News channel Republic Bharat in its news report on April 27, aired the viral video by addressing the man as Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Anil Upadhyay. The YouTube channel of Republic Bharat has nearly three lakh subscribers.

A 2-minute 17-second long video was also posted on Facebook by a user Rajkumar Matolia. The claim attached to the video reads: "What will Rahul Gandhi say on the act of Congress MLA Anil Upadhyay. Congress MLA from Madhya Pradesh Anil Upadhyay has become a fan of Modi." The post was already shared over 1,100 times by the time of filing this story.

Among others, Facebook user Pritesh Suthar and Pradeep Tamhankar also posted the video with similar claims.

In the beginning of the video, another male voice can be heard asking: "Pandey ji ye sab Modi ji ko hatana kyu chahte hain. [Pandey Ji why do all these men want to remove Modi ji]".

AFWA found the same video posted by an entrepreneur Tanmay Shankar on his Twitter, identifying the man as Munna Panday. Shankar has tweeted many videos of the man identifying him as Munna Panday or Mohan Pandey.

We tried finding the man on other social media platforms and successfully found his Facebook and LinkedIn accounts. According to his Linkedin, Pandey is a zonal sales manager at Everest Masala, posted in New Delhi. He has uploaded many of his videos and images on his Facebook account along with the viral video.

He has uploaded a still from the video aired by Republic Bharat as his display picture on Facebook. In the comments section, one of his friends Karunesh Joshi pointed out that his name was misreported by the channel. To this, Pandey replied that it doesn't matter, adding that the Congress party would deny the fact itself.

Tanmay Shankar clarified to The Quint: "I know him personally and he is not connected to any political party. He is just a common man interested in politics and hence he keeps making these videos which I share."

advertisement

India Today contacted Mohan Pandey, who clarified that he is not a Congress MLA Anil Upadhyay. He also sent us a video regarding this.

This is not the first time the name Anil Upadhyay has popped up with false claims. A few days back, a video went viral claiming BJP MLA Anil Upadhyay directing voters at the EVM inside a polling booth. AFWA had debunked the claim.

Earlier too, a video of a man beating up a cop went viral with the claim that the man thrashing the policeman was none other than Congress MLA Anil Upadhyay. AFWA presented the truth to that claim as well.

It is clear that the man in the video aired by Republic Bharat is not an MLA. His name is Mohan Pandey and not Anil Upadhyay.

We have added the quote of Mohan Pandey along with his video that he send us clarifying that he is not Anil Upadhyay.