Over 103 people, including US soldiers, were killed in the attack outside Kabul's airport in Afghanistan on August 26. A photo collage of several US soldiers is now viral on social media with the claim that these are the American military servicemen who were killed in the attack.

The caption to one such post reads, "Praying for the families & friends of those heroes who bravely served Americans and friends of America in Afghanistan and sacrificed everything. #Afghanistan #America #Marines #Navy #SpecialForces #AfghanistanCrisis"

advertisement

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claim along with the photo is misleading. These are the mugshots of US service members killed in a 2017 military plane crash in Mississippi.

AFWA probe

We did a reverse search of the image collage and found the same images carried in a video report by ABC News in 2017. According to the report, 15 Marines and a Navy corpsman had died in a military refuelling aircraft crash on July 10, 2017.

The incident took place in rural northern Mississippi when a KC-130 Hercules aircraft was transporting equipment and people to a Navy facility in El Centro, California.

The images in question were also published by The Washington Post, The New York Times and USA Today in 2017 as that of 16 US service members killed in a plane crash in Mississippi.

Kabul airport attacks

According to reports, at least 13 US soldiers were killed in a suicide bombing outside the Kabul airport on August 26. More than 70 Afghans, including Taliban members, also died in the attack. An Al Jazeera report said this is the first time most US troops died in Afghanistan in a single incident since 2011.

According to a New York Post report published on August 27, the names of one Navy corpsman, nine Marines, and one Army soldier killed in the attack have been released. The identities of an additional Marine and one army soldier have not been disclosed.

'The names and photos of US service members identified as per the New York Post can be seen below.

Hence, it is clear that the images in question are those of US service members who died in an aircraft crash in 2017 and are not related to the recent suicide attack in Afghanistan.