A rather dramatic story about Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, who is currently in jail, is being shared on social media.

It is being said that while in custody, Aryan was slapped twice by the Narcotics Control Bureau's zonal director Sameer Wankhede and that his father Shah Rukh was made to listen to the incident. If you want to believe this juicy story, it goes on to claim that Shah Rukh Khan was told that had he slapped his son earlier, Aryan would not have become 'a spoilt child and a drug addict'.

advertisement

This is what the posts that are sharing this story say: “NCB officer Sameer Wankhede is Bollywood’s real ‘Singham’. A signature dialogue is quite popular at Bollywood parties - Dhuan dheere uda, nahi to Wankhede aa jayega. Aur Wankhede apne baap ki bhi nahi sunta. After his son was arrested, Shah Rukh called up Wankhede and requested him to take care of Aryan. Wankhede asked Shah Rukh to be on hold. He then called up Aryan and slapped him twice. Naturally, Shah Rukh was enraged. But Wankhede told him, 'Mr. Khan, had you slapped your son in time, he wouldn’t have been sitting here in front of me. You allowed your kids to splurge, provided them all the modern amenities but failed in the role of a father to guide them. He will be out soon but won’t be able to forget this slap. Hopefully, this will learn a lesson from this.' Wankhede quipped and then disconnected.”

This fictional story is going viral on multiple platforms. Hindi news websites such as ‘Dilli Se’, ‘Hindi Virals’, ‘Khabar Uttarakhand’ and ‘Mahan Bharat’ have also published this story as it is with almost similarly sensational headlines.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral claim of Aryan Khan being slapped by NCB officer Sameer Wankhede is a figment of imagination.

Talking to AFWA, Sameer Wankhede brushed aside the story as totally baseless. No mainstream media has reported any such incident. It is impossible that any incident like this would not have hit the headlines.

Sameer Wankhede was amused when we shared the story with him. He said, “NCB is a professional agency. Even the defense side has appreciated our professionalism and the way we’ve provided legal treatment to the accused.”

To be doubly sure, we checked media reports about Aryan’s bail plea in the court. If anything like this would have happened, Aryan’s lawyers would surely have brought it to the notice of the court. However, we couldn’t find any such mention.

When we confronted the two websites that published this fictional story, they were quick to admit that they hadn't verified the information.

advertisement

The editor of ‘Khabar Uttarakhand’ Ashish Tiwari admitted, “I’m not sure about the authenticity of this news. It could be right or wrong. The content writer must have picked it up from somewhere. As soon as I find out the source of this news, I will get back to you.” We did not get any further reply from him till the time of publishing this story.

Another website that had published the story pleaded for anonymity and said, “A stringer filed this story just on the basis of a viral social media post without verifying it.” Soon after talking to us, the website took down the story.

Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3, 2021, after the NCB conducted a raid on the Cordelia Cruises' Empress ship off the coast of Mumbai. A rave party was allegedly going on at the time of the raid.

Aryan is currently lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai. On October 13, 2021, Aryan’s bail hearing was adjourned for a day.