Applauding PM Modi’s flagship Make in India’ programme, a video of a double-decker train running in Australia is being widely shared on social media. It is being claimed that the particular train sleek and luxurious is one of the 22 Made in India’ metropolis trains transported to Sydney.

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that though 22 Made in India’ coaches had been transported to Australia last December, but the one in the viral video is not among them.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Apart from Facebook, the video is viral on Twitter as well with the caption: Success story of #MadeInIndia at Australia22 metro trains were Made operational in Sydney yesterdayFirst time in History- Coaches Made in India being run in a foreign land! When PM Modi said New India, this is what he meant!

Using reverse search on one of the key frames from the viral video, we found that the video existed on YouTube much before the coaches were transported to Sydney. The video was posted on YouTube on September 22, 2018, with the caption, Double Decker Metro train in Australia (Sydney & Melbourne).

Alstom, a multinational company that operates in the railway network market, had delivered 22 Made in India’ metropolis trains to Sydney, which were assembled at its Sri City facility in Andhra Pradesh last December.

Australia’s Sydney Metro launched its first fully-automated driverless railway service on May 26. Many national and international prominent media houses had covered the event.

Also, as per the features of Made in India’ coaches cited in the press release by Alstom, there is no such mention about the coaches being double-decker.

The train in the viral video bears the logo of Transport Sydney Trains, which is a hybrid suburban passenger railway network operating in Sydney. On the other hand, the Made in India’ coaches are being used for Sydney Metro that opened in May this year.

It is clear that the train in the viral video has not been made in India.