Most of us would probably be in the dark if we’re asked about the largest cosmic structure in the universe. But if a glittering image floating around on social media is to be believed, it is the largest astronomical structure discovered so far. And it is called the BOSS literally.

A Facebook user shared the image with the caption, “Meet the BOSS! The Largest Structure in the Universe (so far). Astronomers discovered a wall of galaxies 1 billion light years across, larger than anything else yet identified in the Cosmos.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that ‘BOSS (Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey) Great Wall’ is indeed the largest cosmic structure in the universe discovered so far. However, the viral picture is not an actual photograph of BOSS. It is a computer-generated artwork.

AFWA probe

Several users have pointed out in the comment section of the posts that it isn’t an actual image of the cosmic structure ‘BOSS Great Wall’ but an artwork.

Reverse-searching the viral image, we found it in an article published on March 10, 2016. Here, the image was posted with the caption, “An illustration of galaxy superclusters and cosmic voids, similar to the structure of the BOSS Great Wall”. The picture was credited to “Science Photo Library/Corbis”.

Getting a clue from here, we looked for the picture on the official website of “Science Photo Library”. Here, the picture has been credited to an artist named Mehau Kulyk. As per the description, it is an artwork that shows the distribution of galaxies in the universe.

What is BOSS?

BOSS Great Wall is one of the largest structures of the universe comprising four super-clusters (a large group of smaller galaxy clusters) containing 830 galaxies. Its diameter is roughly one billion light-years and it was identified in 2016. The name is derived from “Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey” which is an international effort to map galaxies and quasars (astronomical objects of very high luminosity).

According to a report by “The Washington Post”, BOSS Great Wall weighs around 10,000 times as much as Milky Way, the galaxy that contains our solar system.

Is BOSS the largest cosmic structure?

We contacted Dr RC Kapoor, former professor at the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, Bengaluru, who said BOSS Great Wall is indeed the biggest cosmic structure of the universe at present following the cosmological principle.

“The cosmological principle states that the universe when viewed from a fairly large scale will look the same irrespective of which direction or location you observe from,” he explained.

advertisement

“Cosmic structures bigger than the ‘BOSS Great Wall’ have also been discovered in the past. However, there is not enough data to prove whether or not they exist or they’re actually that big in size,” he added.

But it is certain that the viral image does not show the biggest structure of the universe, but is an artwork illustrating galaxy distribution in the universe.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Social media’s Tata twist to Air India’s Bhangra moves

ALSO READ: Fact Check: When a sofa failed to cushion Akhilesh against social media dig