The world's eyes are on Afghanistan as the dreaded Taliban took over the country, leading to the flight of thousands of people amid fears of persecution. On social media, a screenshot of what looks like a CNN report has attracted flak for apparently praising the Islamist militia for wearing masks during attacks.

"Taliban fighters responsibly wearing masks," reads a 'Breaking News' template allegedly by CNN. The screenshot also shows some armed men. Social media users have called out the global news outlet for 'praising' the Taliban that has been killing innocent Afghan civilians for decades.

advertisement

"..@CNN calls Taliban terrorists as fighters and praises them for wearing masks while killing innocent people in Afghanistan .@UNHumanRights @hrwas usual have maintained a criminal silence," filmmaker Ashoke Pandit tweeted while sharing the viral screenshot.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral screenshot is part of a satire, published by a satirical website called "The Babylon Bee".

The archived version of the viral post can be seen here. The post is viral on Facebook as well.

AFWA investigation

With the help of keywords, we found an article on a portal named "The Babylon Bee" with the headline, "CNN Praises Taliban For Wearing Masks During Attack". The article was published on August 15 with the viral photo as the cover image.

"Approximately twelve minutes after U.S. troops withdrew from Afghanistan, Taliban fighters have completely taken over the entire country," reads the first line of the article, which itself proves it was written as satire.

The "About Us" section of the website also clarifies that it is a satirical website. The Twitter bio of "The Babylon Bee" says, "Fake news you can trust".

Therefore, it can be concluded that the viral CNN screenshot praising the Taliban for wearing masks is not real, but a satire published amid the chaos unfolding in Afghanistan.

What's happening in Afghanistan?

Afghanistan has been gripped by fear since the United States announced troop withdrawal after two decades of sidelining the Taliban. However, as soon as the US started pulling out its troops, the Taliban captured the entire country in a few weeks.

Former Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and other officials fled the country as the Taliban entered Kabul and the presidential palace on Sunday, August 15. The Taliban, known for its brutal rule and utter disregard for human, women and minority rights, is now appointing its own people at different levels of the government.