In a world desperately waiting for a shot in the arm against coronavirus, literally, Russian President Vladimir Putin’s announcement about a breakthrough should have brought jubilation all around. The reaction it elicited instead is of scepticism and suspicion.

‘Sputnik V’ the vaccine has been named after the world’s first satellite failed to establish itself firmly in the orbit of scientific Illuminati. Putin went ahead to claim that he is so confident about the vaccine that one of his two daughters has already been inoculated. That still failed to impress medical scientists.

advertisement

Daniel Salmon, the director of the Institute for Vaccine Safety at Johns Hopkins University, called the Russian vaccine “scary” and “really risky”.

Germany’s health ministry scoffed at ‘Sputnik V’ and pointed out that “there is no known data on the quality, efficacy and safety of the Russian vaccine”.

Neither is the World Health Organization (WHO) very enthusiastic. WHO spokesperson Tarik Jasarevic emphasised that the “prequalification of any vaccine includes rigorous review and assessment of all required safety and efficacy data”.

Why is the world not convinced?

The main problem is there is not enough data to support Russia’s claim about the vaccine being safe and effective. Sample this (translated from Russian) extract from the original registration document of the vaccine. It says, “The duration of the protection is unknown. No clinical studies have been conducted to study the epidemiological effectiveness.”

The document goes on to say, and as was reported by several websites in Russian, that the vaccine has an age limit of 18-60. The drug is not allowed for children and pensioners.

It is contraindicated in pregnant and lactating women, as “efficacy and safety have not been studied. The interaction of the vaccine with other drugs and its effect on the ability to drive vehicles have not been studied either.”

Russia rushed through clinical trials to finish first

Because of the prevailing Covid-19 emergency situation, vaccine developments across the globe are being fast-tracked. But the Russian vaccine has raised concerns because of the rather incredible speed at which it has been pushed through and approved by the government.

‘Sputnik V’ has been developed by Moscow-based Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. It was registered by the Russian health ministry on August 11 as the first registered Covid-19 vaccine in the market.

A website called "Sputnik V” has been created for information regarding the world’s “first registered Covid-19 vaccine”, which reveals many fine prints about it. The certificate mentions that “the vaccine cannot be used widely until 1 January 2021”, presumably after larger clinical trials are completed.

advertisement

What kind of vaccine is ‘Sputnik V’?

Scientists across the world are trying different approaches to develop a vaccine which can provide a shield to the human body against the virus attack. The Russian vaccine is an “adenovirus vector-based vaccine”.

The idea is to use the weakened common cold virus to stimulate an immune response and trigger the formation of antibodies against Covid-19. These anti-bodies are then ready to fight against Covid-19 in case one catches a coronavirus infection. Even the widely awaited Oxford University vaccine is exploring the same route.

Concerns over the vaccine

There are three main areas of concern.

First, the vaccine has been approved even before the vital Phase 3 trial started on August 12. According to the ‘Sputnik V’ website, “Phase 3 clinical trial involving more than 2,000 people in Russia, a number of Middle Eastern (UAE and Saudi Arabia), and Latin American countries (Brazil and Mexico) will start on August 12. Mass production of the vaccine is expected to start in September 2020.”

The website also says that “emergency rules adopted during the Covid-19 pandemic can be used to vaccinate the population in Russia”. Naturally, not everyone is comfortable with the idea.

advertisement

The second problem is that even for the just-concluded Phase 2 of trial, the sample size was too small for fair evaluation about the safety and efficacy. All the data about the testing has not been made public yet. According to “Science” magazine, so far, it has only been tested on 76 people in total.

The third problem is it is not clear for how long the vaccine can provide protection and what could be the potential side-effects. These conclusions could only be drawn after the third and final stage of trials is complete. In this case, the third phase has just started.

This is why the Russian vaccine is being called more of a stunt rather than a medical breakthrough. As of now, not many experts are betting on the flight of ‘Sputnik V’.

The wait for a successful vaccine is not over yet.