Lakhs of people have fled and are still attempting to flee Afghanistan fearing atrocities by the Taliban. However, it is the minority groups such as Hindus, Sikhs and Christians who've faced the worst brutalities by the terror group. Even smaller Muslim communities such as Hazaras bear the brunt of Taliban excesses.

Amid the stream of chilling videos coming in from Afghanistan, a startling clip of some people wrapped in transparent plastic bags is viral on social media. It is being claimed that this is how Christians in Afghanistan who refused to abandon their faith were left to die of suffocation by the Taliban.

advertisement

A Facebook user shared the video with the caption, "Christians wrapped in nylon bags to die slowly of suffocation in Afghanistan for refusing to deny Christ. Please, let's pray for them."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video does not show Afghan Christians wrapped in nylon bags. Instead, it shows a protest held in Colombia in May 2021 against the government.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching the viral video, we found its longer version on YouTube. As per the description, the video shows a protest titled "Empaquetados" which was staged at Poblado Park on May 26, 2021. The park is situated in Colombia's Medellin city.

Using keyword search, we found a Facebook Live video of the protest. The caption in Spanish says: Performance "Empaquetados" at Poblado Park on May 26, 2021. A tribute to the people who have been found dead in recent days, drowned, in pieces and in bags. In honour of all those who left their homes to fight for their rights and could not return home.

The protest was mainly against a proposed tax hike.

"ADN Medellin" newspaper had also covered this protest in its May 27 edition.

Fact-check website "Maldita.es" had earlier debunked the claim.

But it is also true that minorities who haven't fled Afghanistan are petrified. American politician Mark Walker had last month alleged that an Afghan Christian was skinned alive and hung on a pole by the Taliban.