The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on December 8 alleged that Delhi Police put Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest after he met protesting farmers at the Singhu border. However, Delhi police denied the allegations made by AAP and dubbed them as "lies" and "baseless".

Amid this, a video of AAP leaders like Manish Sisodia, Raghav Chadha and others raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi is being shared on social media. It is being said that the video is of the AAP leaders protesting against Kejriwal’s alleged house arrest.

advertisement

The caption of one such video in Hindi translates as, "Whenever Modi is scared, he puts police forward. We won't tolerate such hooliganism due to their fear of defeat,” - Sanjay Azad Sln. The senior leaders of Aam Aadmi Party sat on dharna to protest against Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's house arrest. #BJPHouseArrestsKejriwal #Aaj_Bharat_Bandh_he."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. The video is from a 2019 protest held by AAP against the alleged raids done by Delhi Police at the party's call centres.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA PROBE

With the help of a keyword search on the internet, we found images similar to the now-viral video, uploaded on the official Twitter handle of AAP on March 15, 2019.

Here is an image comparison between a screenshot from the viral video and an image from AAP's Twitter post.

However, the tweet did not provide any details about the protest. We also found a longer version of the viral video uploaded on the verified YouTube channel of Pal Pal News. Protesting AAP leaders can be heard talking to some officers regarding the raids held at the party's call centres by the police force.

Khusboo Akhtar, Editor-in-Chief of Pal Pal News confirmed to us that the video was shot by her staff in May last year. “The video is from May 2019. It was captured by one of our staff when the AAP leaders held a protest outside the Election Commission's office in Delhi. They were protesting against an alleged raid on their call centres by the Delhi police. Towards the end of the original video on our YouTube channel, you can see the AAP leaders speaking with the officers from the Election Commission regarding the matter,” Aktar said.

We also found multiple news reports from 2019 regarding AAP’s protest against the alleged police raids on call centres hired by the party to inform people that their names are deleted from the electoral rolls.

advertisement

"After our meeting with the CEC (on Friday), we were assured that he will look into the matter but within an hour we see that a fourth raid is conducted on the call centre," according to a Times of India report published on March 15, 2019, which quoted Deputy CM Manish Sisodia.

An image from the protest held outside the Election Commission office was also carried in The New Indian Express report published on March 16, 2019.

Following the alleged house arrest of Kejriwal, on December 8 the AAP leader had conducted a sit-in protest outside his residence. The video of this protest uploaded by news agency ANI can be seen below.

#WATCH: Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia hold sit-in protest outside Chief Minister's residence alleging Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest. pic.twitter.com/QGeedRLXTX — ANI (@ANI) December 8, 2020

Thus, it is clear that the viral video is more than a year old and not related to the alleged house arrest of Delhi CM Kejriwal.