Earlier this month, the world observed the 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi as the International Day of Non-Violence.

Now, a video of singer and BJP’s Lok Sabha MP Hans Raj Hans singing 'Raghupati Raghava Raja Ram' a bhajan popularised by Mahatma Gandhi - is viral on social media with the claim that the line "Ishwar Allah Tero Naam" (God and Allah are your names) has been removed from the bhajan by the Narendra Modi government. The claim also says this line has been replaced by “Jai Shree Ram, Sita Ram”.

advertisement

Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu can also be seen in the video.

The caption to one such post reads, “Finally "Ishwar Allah tero naam" is removed and replaced by “Jai Shree Ram, Sita Ram" in Raghupati Raghav Raja ram. Dhanyawad @narendramodi ji”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video in question is clipped. In a longer version of the video, we can hear Hans Raj Hans singing the line "Ishwar Allah Tero Naam".

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Every year, at the Gandhi Smriti in New Delhi, this bhajan is sung in the presence of national leaders on October 2 to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary and on January 30 to mark his death anniversary. Also, in the video, we can see multiple people wearing a face mask. This indicates that the video is fairly recent.

With the help of a keyword search, we found the complete version of the video in question uploaded on the YouTube channel “Hans Raj Hans Live” on October 4, 2021. According to the description given by the channel, the video is from the occasion of the 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi at Gandhi Smriti.

Between 1:52 seconds and 2 minutes into the video, we can hear Hans Raj Hans singing “Jai Shree Ram” around four times which is not part of the Raghupati bhajan popularised by Gandhi.

However, from 2:38 to 3:18 seconds of this video Hans Raj Hans also sings the line "Ishwar Allah Tero Nam, Sabko Sanmati De Bhagwan” (God and Allah are your names, God bless everyone with wisdom”).

The original video of Hans Raj Hans singing the bhajan was also uploaded on the official YouTube channel of PMO India and Narendra Modi on October 2.

The Raghupati bhajan is an excerpt from “Shri Nama Ramayanam” written by Lakshmanacharya. Gandhi later modified and composed it in view of achieving reconciliation between different communities. The line “Ishwar Allah Tero Naam, Sabko Sanmati De Bhagwan” was added by Gandhi to the bhajan as part of this modification. This hymn was a common feature in Gandhi’s prayer meetings.

advertisement

Had Hans Raj Hans removed the part "Ishwar Allah Tero Naam” from the bhajan while singing, it would have definitely made the news. However, we couldn’t find any such report from credible sources.

Gandhi’s version of the bhajan, as given on the website of Gandhi Sevagram Ashram can be seen below.

Thus, it is clear that the video in question is clipped from a longer version of the bhajan that was sung by Hans Raj Hans on the 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. In the longer version, he can indeed be heard singing “Ishwar Allah Tero Naam, Sabko Sanmati De Bhagwan''.