An image of Reliance Foundation chairperson Nita Ambani and RSS General Secretary Dattatreya Hosabale holding a photograph of Ram mandir has gone viral linking it to the upcoming Uttar Pradesh election.

“Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ke Mahasachiv Uttar Pradesh Dattatreya Hosabale (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sagh’s General Secretary Uttar Pradesh Dattatreya Hosable)” is written at the bottom of the image.

A picture of UP CM Yogi Adityanath and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat can also be seen in the background.

advertisement

Multiple Twitter users have posted this viral image with captions like, “Dirty politics in the name of Ram”. Another caption says, “See the nexus!!! Ambani & Adani fill their coffers at our taxpayers' money. Bozos always are capitalists. (sic)”

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral picture has been altered by putting various images together. A senior official of Reliance Industries Ltd. said that Reliance Foundation chairperson Nita Ambani had never met Dattatreya Hosabale.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

AFWA probe

After some research on the internet with keywords, we have found no news report or image that confirm this meeting between Nita Ambani and Dattatreya Hosabale.

For further confirmation, we spoke to a senior official of Reliance Industries Limited, who called the image “fake” and said that Reliance Foundation chairperson Nita Ambani had never met Dattatreya Hosabale in person. With the help of reverse image search, we found that the viral image was created artificially by photoshopping multiple images. We found that the position of both Nita Ambani and Dattatreya Hosabale’s images were reversed before using in the viral picture.

The original image of Hosabale, published on websites like My Times Today and Newstrack.

In the original image, Professor Sanjay Dwivedi is seen with Dattatraya Hosabale. Hosabale can be seen holding a flower bouquet with his right hand. But in the viral image, since the image of Hosabale has been reversed, the original right hand became the left hand.

A thumb has been photoshopped into the photo to make it look original, but that looks awkward because it is an unusual way of holding a picture with the left hand.

On the other hand, the original image of Nita Ambani was published in a 2016 The Economic Times article. The Reliance Foundation chairperson was holding a Pichavai style painting of Lord Krishna made on cloth.

As per news reports, the Reliance Foundation had pledged to support and revive this 400-year-old art form.

The photo of Yogi Adityanath and Mohan Bhagwat in the viral image has been taken from a file photo published on The Hindustan Times, which can be seen here.

It is clear that the viral image is manipulated and created by photoshopping multiple photographs sourced from various sources.

Hence, the viral post is absolutely false, since the image is not real but altered.

advertisement

(With input from Manjeet Shah)

READ: Fact Check: Photos from US, Hungary viral as two streets of same city with huge temperature difference

ALSO READ: Fact Check: No, Uttar Pradesh government has not abolished the reservation policy