As the political showdown between Mamata Banerjee and the BJP continues in Kolkata, a photo collage is being shared widely on Facebook, showcasing the huge popularity of PM Narendra Modi in West Bengal. The post claims these photographs are of the PM’s rally held on February 2 in North 24 Parganas district.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

advertisement

PM Modi’s rally did attract a huge crowd, which was covered by prominent media houses, including THE TIMES OF INDIA.

However, India Today Fact Check found out that the photos used in the collage are much older than claimed and are of election rallies held by the PM in different cities, such as Bengaluru in Karnataka and Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh.

The 3-photo collage currently going viral on social media was posted by Facebook user Godhi Vijay Garg on February 3 with a caption, which translated to English says: "Yesterday in Bengal, Modi had to stop his address midway to say, Brothers kindly adjust; there isn’t enough space in the ground for this historic crowd’." (Kal Bengal mein Modi ko bhashan beech me rok kar kehna pada Bhaiyon adjust karo ek dusre ke sath maidan chhota pad gaya hai aitehasik bheed, thugbandhan ke uda diye parkhachhe.)

Another user, Rajinder Khanna, shared the same post on the Facebook page Hindu Samrajya, which has around 1.4 lakh members.

On reverse search, we discovered that the first image, in which a stage setup is visible, was published on February 5, 2014 on a news website deshgujarat.com with the headline: The Kolkata crowd at Modi’s rally (In Pictures).

The second image was clicked on November 17, 2013, when Modi addressed "Bharatha Gellisi" rally at Palace Ground in Bengaluru. The photo was used by the website filmibeat.com in a story with the headline: Narendra Modi to addressed Bharatha Gellisi Rally in Bengaluru Photos.

The third image in the collage has been taken from PM Narendra Modi’s official website narendramodi.in with the caption PM Modi’s speech at public rally in Fatehpur, Uttar Pradesh, February 19, 2017.

While all the three pictures in the collage being shared currently on Facebook are from Modi's rallies, none of them are related to the rally held by the PM in Bengal on February 2.

Also read: Fact Check: No, this fountain is not powered by om

Also read: Hampi world heritage site vandalised by hooligans, video goes viral