Elections are over but some controversies are refusing to die down.

One of many is the "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" slogan that continues to reverberate across the social media landscape.

A short video clip of National Conference (NC) president and senior Jammu and Kashmir leader Farooq Abdullah is going viral both on Facebook and Twitter.

Abdullah can be heard passionately shouting "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" in the video.

advertisement

Netizens claim that this is "the new Farooq Abdulla of J&K after Amit Shah became the home minister". The claim ends with tears of joy emojis.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be misleading.

This is a nearly nine-month-old video. At that time, Amit Shah was the BJP president and not the home minister as mentioned in the claim. Amit Shah was appointed the new home minister as recent as last week.

People have also shared this video on Twitter with the caption "Soon after Amit Shah became home minister...Mr Farooq Abdulla".

The video is being circulated widely on Facebook. Many users such as Parameswaran Pv and Nikunj Shah posted this video last Sunday.

The 30-second video shows Abdullah addressing a huge gathering where he asked the audience to join him in shouting "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" as loudly as possible. He ended up the speech with "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" and "Jai Hind" slogans. In the last frame, PM Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Ghulam Nabi Azad can be seen sitting in the crowd as guests.

The viral video has the logo of 'Bharat Tak', one of the most popular YouTube news channels. We found the original video uploaded by 'Bharat Tak' on August 20, 2018, with the caption in Hindi "Badal gaye Farooq Abdullah dekhiye video".

In the video description, it is mentioned that on the occasion of the all-party prayer meet for Atal Bihari Vajpayee at Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium in New Delhi, Farooq Abdullah shared his old memories about the former prime minister.

DD news had uploaded the entire recording of the event on YouTube on August 20, 2018. We can hear the exact portion where Abdullah is asking everybody to shout out "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" along with him.

Vajpayee died last year on August 16. An all-party prayer meet was organised at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium in New Delhi on August 20. Amit Shah was then the BJP president and Rajnath Singh was the home minister.

Linking this video with the recent development of Shah's appointment as home minister is completely misleading. Fact Checker Alt News has also debunked this misinformation.