Update (02 March 2023) :

Lately, another video which claims to show a real mermaid caught on camera is being widely shared. However, these visuals do not show any real mermaid but a mermaid instructor who is swimming dressed in an artificial mermaid tail.

Reverse image search of the viral visuals led us to a TikTok video which carried the similar visuals. The bio section of this TikTok describes her as mermaid instructor. As per her Instagram bio, she works at aquacity freediving school, based in Cornwall, UK. Thus it is evident that the visuals show a real woman dressed in artificial mermaid tail.

Update (24 JULY 2022):

Another video is being shared on social media claiming it as visuals of a mermaid caught on camera under a bridge. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a mermaid caught on camera under a bridge. Fact: The video does not show a real mermaid. ‘JJPD Productions’ published the same video on their YouTube channel describing it as a computer-generated (CGI) video created by Jimmy Perez. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

On reverse image search of the screenshots in the video, a video with similar visuals was found to be published on the ‘JJPD Productions’ YouTube channel. The description of the video states, “These are paranormal videos created by us to entertain. All images shown are fictional. CGI Video (Computer Generated Image) Design and Creation of the Mermaid in 3D: Joaquín Pérez 3D Animation and VFX Edition”. So, the video shared in the post does not show a real mermaid.

Update (24 JUNE 2022):

Another video is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it shows a strange creature caught on camera recently. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video shows a strange creature caught on camera recently. Fact: The creature in the posted video is not a real one. On the YouTube channel of ‘JJPD Productions’, the same video can be seen with the description that it is a computer-generated (CGI) video. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

The posted video has three different clips. All the three clips can be seen in a video uploaded by ‘JJPD Productions’ YouTube channel. In the description of the video, the following is seen – “These are paranormal videos created by us to entertain. All images shown are fictional. CGI Video (Computer Generated Image)” (translated into English). Another video on that channel also shows the making process.

Published (20 JUNE 2022):

A video is being shared widely on social media with a claim that it shows a real mermaid spotted in the ocean. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video shows a real mermaid spotted in the ocean. Fact: The video does not show a real mermaid. ‘JJPD Productions’ has posted the same video on their YouTube channel with the description that it is a computer-generated (CGI) video. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

When the screenshots of the video were run through Yandex Reverse Image Search, many similar videos were found in the search results. However, no proper information regarding the video was found. On searching for the video with some keywords, the same video was found to be posted by ‘JJPD Productions’ on their YouTube channel. In the description of the video, they said – “These are paranormal videos created by us to entertain. All images shown are fictional: Video CGI”.

In another video on their channel, ‘JJPD Productions’ has explained the process followed in creating those visuals. So, the posted video does not show a real mermaid.

To sum it up, a CGI video is being falsely shared as visuals of a real mermaid spotted in the ocean.