A recent WhatsApp message promising a free T-shirt has got users forming queues. The message claims that Jio is offering free T-shirts to its subscribers on the occasion of Republic Day.

The message also contains a registration link.

The WhatsApp message

The archived page can be seen here.

India Today Fact Check found this claim to be totally false. All the registration link does is take the user to Google Play Store in several steps and ask him/her to download an app which has nothing to do with Jio.

advertisement

The viral message, translated in English, says, "Since Jio has reached 25 crore subscriber base, so on the occasion of January 26, the network will be gifting over 5 lakh free T-shirts to those who would register on their number on the said website. If anyone else in the family has a Jio number, then they can also register for a free T-shirt."

This is the web page where the link appears.

To test the link circulating on WhatsApp, India Today Fact Check team opened it to register our Fact Check number -- 7370007000 -- which is definitely not a Jio connection. Even then, the web link took us to another page. This new page provided us an order number and to complete the process for a free T-shirt, it said the message needs to be forwarded to 10 groups on WhatsApp.

To find the truth, we clicked on "WhatsApp par share kare (share it on WhatsApp)". It took us to another page where it asked for an application to be downloaded to verify the number.

The below mentioned flowchart showed the pages that the link asked people to visit one after another.

Flowchart of link that takes you to different pages

To cross-check, we contacted Jio spokesperson who said that the message is fake and the company has no such offers of free T-shirts for its subscribers. He confirmed that they keep receiving many such fake messages like the one that was earlier floated during the New Year, which was reported by Quint.

Hence, India Today Fact Check established that the viral message is totally fake and Jio is not offering any free T-shirt on Republic Day. This is just a clickbait trying to trick users to download an app.