Is Pope Francis down with coronavirus? If some social media post is to be believed then the Pope has contracted coronavirus.

At an Ash Wednesday service on February 26 in the Vatican, 83-year-old Pope was seen coughing and blowing his nose. After this, a post went viral on social media claiming that the Vatican has confirmed that Pope has tested positive for coronavirus.

advertisement

We found this post to be misleading. The Vatican spokesperson Matteo Bruni has clarified that Francis was suffering from a slight indisposition and had not contracted coronavirus.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

A Facebook user "Jitesh Saxena" posted the link of Reddit.com containing the photographs of Pope coughing with the caption: "Vatican confirms Pope Francis and two aides test positive for Coronavirus".

We ran a search on the internet about Pope Francis down with coronavirus and found the statement from the Vatican. The spokesperson of Vatican, Matteo Bruni clarified on February 28 saying that Francis was suffering only from a slight indisposition and had not contracted coronavirus. There is no evidence that would lead to diagnosing anything but a mild indisposition."

On March 3, the Italian newspaper "Il Messaggero" had reported that Pope was tested for coronavirus but the result was negative. The Vatican has not officially confirmed or rejected the claim of this test till date.

The news about Pope getting coronavirus might have originated from an article published in a Malaysian website "Making Comments Meaningful". The headline of the article was "Vatican confirms Pope Francis and two aides test positive for coronavirus". However, this article is not credible.

A closer analysis of the website shows that it is not a legitimate one. The report does not have a byline and the source is also missing. Also, there is no information about contact details and the description or "about us" page detailing the nature of the organization.

Fact checking organisation Snopes earlier debunked the claim.

It is clear that Pope Francis was suffering from a cold the claim that the Vatican confirmed he had contracted the novel coronavirus is false.