Face masks have become the new normal for humankind after the Covid-19 outbreak. However, a few social media users claim prolonged use of masks cause hypoxia, oxygen deficiency in the body and fatigue.

Hypoxia is a condition in which the body or a region of the body is deprived of adequate oxygen supply at the tissue level. As per the viral claim, this can happen due to breathing exhaled air over and over again, which turns into carbon dioxide and makes us feel dizzy.

advertisement

The archived version of the Facebook post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Use of face masks does not cause hypoxia and it has no adverse effect on brain or heart functioning. Prolonged use of tight-fitting face masks and goggles, however, can cause headaches and face pain among healthcare workers.

Social media users shared the post on WhatsApp and Facebook following an article published on a Nigerian website called “Vanguard”.

The article claims that prolonged use of face masks result in breathing too much of one’s own exhaled carbon dioxide, which can lead to health concerns.

This post has been shared by many on Facebook.

AFWA investigation

The viral post says, “Breathing over and over exhaled air turns into carbon dioxide, which is why we feel dizzy. This intoxicates the user and much more when he must move, carry out displacement actions. It causes discomfort, loss of reflexes and conscious thought. It generates great fatigue. In addition, oxygen deficiency causes glucose breakdown and endangered lactic acid rise.”

We spoke to eminent physician Dr Sanjeev Bagai, chairman of Nephron Clinic, who confirmed that it is absolutely safe to wear masks even for long hours. Dr Bagai said, “Masks are to protect you from infection that might occur from cough or droplets. But a mask should not suffocate you. It should be of appropriate size and shape. It should not be so tight on your face that it makes you feel uncomfortable.”

The viral post does not mention any specific kind of mask as to whether it is an N-95 or surgical mask. The N-95 mask, part of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), is usually worn by health workers to protect the user from airborne and liquid particles that might contaminate the face. Stanford engineers have recently developed a new protective face mask that can counteract the side effects of oxygen deficiency.

According to John Xu, a research scientist working on the Stanford project. “N-95 masks are estimated to reduce oxygen intake by anywhere from 5 to 20 per cent. That’s significant, even for a healthy person. It can cause dizziness and lightheadedness. If you wear a mask long enough, it can damage the lungs. For a patient in respiratory distress, it can even be life threatening.”

advertisement

Dr Sudhir Kumar, senior neurologist at Apollo hospital in Hyderabad, says there is no truth in the viral post. “In fact, it appears mischievous on the part of the person who posted this. We are well aware that face masks help in reducing person-to-person transmission of corona and other respiratory infections. A post like this can discourage the public from using face masks,” he says.

Dr Kumar stresses that the use of face masks does not cause hypoxia and it has no adverse effects on brain or heart functioning. “Prolonged use of tight-fitting face masks and goggles, however, can cause headaches and face pain among some healthcare workers,” he added.

The World Health Organization or the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also do not warn about the prolonged use of face masks.

Therefore, as per medical practitioners, normal surgical masks made of cloth and without valves are absolutely safe for prolonged use. A mask has to be of appropriate size and should not be so tight that it suffocates the user. Experts say prolonged use of masks should be avoided in health facilities because they lose their effectiveness, and not due to lack of oxygen.

Also read: Fact Check: There’s a lion’s share of fiction in this viral video