The reality television show Bigg Boss came out with its brand new season 13 recently. As the latest season airs, a black and white still image from the show is doing rounds on the internet. The image is going viral with a claim that the reality show is encouraging "Love Jihad".

The black and white still image shows an intimate couple sharing a bed. According to the claim, the show has invited a Kashmiri Muslim man who has been deliberately partnered with a Brahmin woman 'to encourage Love Jihad'.

Screenshot of the tweet making the viral claim

advertisement

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the post to be misleading. The AFWA found that the black and white still image doing rounds on social media platforms is not from Bigg Boss season 13 but the show's season 9 which aired in 2015.

The truth is that the man and the woman, in the still image, are actors Suyyash Rai and Kishwar Merchant respectively. They were both the contestants of Bigg Boss season 9.

Atul Kushwaha, a verified Twitter handle, shared the misleading post on Friday. The tweet has been retweeted more than 1,500 times and liked by over 2,500 users. People are sharing this post on Facebook as well.

When we reverse-searched the still image, we found that the viral still image was part of multiple YouTube videos uploaded in October, 2015. YouTube channel TellyMasala titled the video - Bigg Boss 9: Suyyash & Kishwar Intimate On-Camera. As per the video, Suyyash Rai and Kishwar Merchant kissed each other in the middle of the night at the Bigg Boss house in the show's season 9 which was aired in 2015.

When we further investigated into the matter, we found that Suyyash and Kishwar got married on December 16, 2016 after having been together in a relationship for a long time.

However, it is indeed true that Kashmiri Muslim man Asim Riaz is the contestant in the current season of Bigg Boss.

As per the report of Pinkvilla.com, contestant named Mahira Sharma was asked to choose a partner for cleaning bathrooms and she chose Asim Riaz as he too hails from Kashmir, just like her.

So, it is true that a Kashmiri Muslim man is a contestant in Bigg Boss 13 and cleaning partner with a Hindu girl but the photo used in the post is misleading.