Amid the ongoing assembly polls in five states, where Aam Aadmi Party is also a contender, a video clip has gone viral featuring Delhi Chief Minister and party supremo Arvind Kejriwal.

This seven-second clip was shared by many with the claim that in it, Kejriwal admitted to his ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. In that video, Kejriwal can be heard saying in Hindi, “We come from a Jan Sangh family. We have been life-long BJP supporters. My father, who belonged to Jan Sangh, was jailed during the emergency.”

advertisement

“Kejriwal admits he is a BJP-RSS man,” a Twitter user claimed sharing the video. The official handle of Dadra and Nagar Haveli Congress Sevadal has also shared this video alongside a caption that reads, “We have already been telling this. It's now wide and open. Kejriwal is BJP/RSS Pawn. Paidaieshi BJP wale hain ye.”

We have aalready been telling this.



It's now wide and open.



Kejriwal is BJP/RSS Pawn.



Paidaieshi BJP wale hain ye.#AAP_BJP_Exposed pic.twitter.com/o0CJ5DhTyy — Dadra and Nagar Haveli Congress Sevadal (@SevadalDNH) February 13, 2022

Archived versions of similar claims can be seen here, here, and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this claim to be misleading. The viral video has been doctored. Kejriwal in the original video was referring to another person; not himself.

AFWA Probe

The logo of NDTV 24X7 was clearly visible in this video. So, we searched for a source with relevant keywords.

Search results led us to a video uploaded by the NDTV on YouTube on February 4, 2020. At the 4.11-minute-mark, Kejriwal can be heard criticising the top BJP leadership for seeking votes against the issue of anti-CAA protest in Shaheen Bagh. At that time, the 2020 Delhi Assembly Elections were around the corner.

At the one-minute-39-seconds mark, Kejriwal said in Hindi, “I was watching a channel where a BJP-man was speaking. He said ‘We come from a Jan Sangh family. We have been life-long BJP supporters. My father, who belonged to Jan Sangh, was jailed during the emergency. But this time I’ll vote for Kejriwal.’”

In the viral clip, the first and the last part of Kejriwal’s words have been edited out. We also found an NDTV news report about this interview.

Thus, it is clear that the viral video of Arvind Kejriwal where he said he was a BJP-RSS man was edited to give it a false context.

(With Inputs from Sanjana Saxena in Lucknow)