Deepika Padukone's movie 'Chhapaak', which is based on the real-life story of acid attack survivor Laxmi Agarwal, has been embroiled in controversies lately.

The latest one being fake news from a social media post which is going viral. A Facebook post has claimed that Laxmi Agarwal confronted Deepika Padukone and film director Meghna Gulzar saying they did not disclose it to her that the name of her acid attacker was changed to a Hindu name 'Rajesh' in the film.

advertisement

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Laxmi Agarwal has not made any such statement. Also, the name of the acid attacker in the movie is 'Bashir Khan aka Babbu', not 'Rajesh'.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Among others, Facebook page 'Mission Modi' posted Laxmi Agarwal's photo with a quote attributed to her written in Hindi that translates to: "Name of the acid attacker is Naeem Khan (Muslim), but the name has been changed to Rajesh (Hindu) in the movie Chhapaak. Why Deepika and film director Meghna Gulzar kept this fact hidden from me?"

By the time of filing this story, the post has been shared by more than 1,800 times.

To verify the viral claim, we took a good look at Laxmi Agarwal's official Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts but did not find any such statement. We also didn't find any media report supporting the claim.

We also tried contacting Laxmi Agarwal but her phone went unanswered. We will update this story in case she responds.

Recently, Laxmi Agarwal was invited to Mumbai where Deepika Padukone, her co-star Vikrant Massey and director Meghna Gulzar launched the movie's song.

While speaking to media, Deepika Padukone thanked Laxmi for the support. She said: "Thank you, ki aapne humko mauka diya ye kahaani dikhane ke liye, batane ke liye. Ye bohot hi important kahaani hai. Thank you, ki aapne dil se kiya. Not once did you doubt us. Not once did you question us. Aur aapne jo bhi kiya hai bohot dil se kiya hai. I hope you are proud of the movie that we have made and I hope we have been able to do justice to your incredible and inspiring story."

According to media reports Laxmi Agarwal was involved with the filming of Chhapaak since the beginning. In an earlier interview with IANS, she said, "I was involved with the film. I was happy to share the story of my struggle and survival with the makers of the film."

About Laxmi Agarwal:

Delhi girl Laxmi Agarwal was just 15 years old when she survived an acid attack in the year 2005. Naeem Khan, a 32-year-old man splashed acid on Laxmi Agarwal's face as she had refused his marriage proposal. Her face and other body parts were disfigured due to this attack. Laxmi Agarwal had to undergo intensive treatment and multiple surgeries.

advertisement

About the movie Chhapaak and controversies:

Directed by Meghna Gulzar and produced by Deepika Padukone along with Meghna, Chhapaak is based on the life of Laxmi Agarwal. Deepika has played the role of Laxmi in the film. After Deepika went JNU to express solidarity with students who were attacked by a mob, several trolls started slamming her and her movie Chhapaak.

Makers faced controversy with the rumour that the name of the real-life acid attacker was changed in the film to protect his religious identity. However, this proved to be fake news as the name of the acid attacker in the movie is 'Bashir Khan aka Babbu'.

Many prominent media houses including India Today have presented this fact in their movie reviews. Rajesh is the name of Malti's (played by Deepika Padukone) boyfriend in the film.

Hence, it is clear that Laxmi has not made any such statement against Deepika Padukone or Meghna Gulzar.