A photo is being shared on social media with the following claim – “See with whom the Supreme court judges who passed verdict are having lunch with. Rinita Mazumdar The 2 SC judges, #SuryaKant and #Pardiwala with the naxal gang. Pranab Roy is there. Then there is Radhika Roy”. Justices Surya Kant and J B Pardiwala were part of the bench which reportedly held Nupur Sharma “single-handedly responsible for what is happening in the country”. Let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.

Claim: Photo of SC Judges Surya Kant and JB Pardiwala with Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy. Fact: SC Judges Surya Kant and JB Pardiwala are not there in the posted photo. The persons present in the photo are – Prannoy Roy, Radhika Roy, P Thiaga Rajan, Brinda Karat, Prakash Karat, Mrs. and Mr. N Ram, and Dipali Sikand. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.

On running the posted photo through Google Reverse Image Search and using some keywords, the same photo was found to be uploaded by ‘Mindescapes’ on their social media channels. ‘Mindescapes’ posted the same photo on their Twitter account on 03 July 2022 with the following description – “A Chef’s Table session with Finance Minister – Tamil Nadu, Mr. P. Thiagarajan, Dr. Prannoy Roy and Mrs. Radhika Roy, Mrs. Brinda Karat and Mr. Prakash Karat, Mrs. and Mr. N. Ram and Dipali Sikand.”

A Chef's Table session with Finance Minister – Tamil Nadu, Mr. P. Thiagarajan, Dr. Prannoy Roy and Mrs. Radhika Roy, Mrs. Brinda Karat and Mr. Prakash Karat, Mrs. and Mr. N. Ram and Dipali Sikand. #ExperienceMindEscapes #ChefsTable #Nilgiris #GreatMindsMeet pic.twitter.com/pPrBGZh4Ij — Mindescapes (@MindEscapesClub) July 3, 2022

Dipali Sikand (who can be seen in the photo beside Prakash Karat) is the founder of ‘Mindescapes’.

There is no mention of SC Judges Surya Kant and JB Pardiwala in the posts made by ‘Mindescapes’. Also, they cannot be seen in the posted photo. The details of Judges Surya Kant and JB Pardiwala can be found on the Supreme Court website.

To sum it up, SC Judges Surya Kant and JB Pardiwala are not in this photo with Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy.