Correction: The focus of our story was on the number of medals won during the UPA and the NDA rule. Our premise for picking up a claim was based on the photographs that were published by Postcard News comparing Manmohan Singh and Narendra Modi with sportspersons. However, we were pointed out for drawing our own inference from the pictures rather than restricting ourselves to the claim made explicitly. Taking a cue from the feedback, we corrected our story. Now, the story focuses on the pose of the two prime ministers in the pictures.

advertisement

Is Prime Minister Narendra Modi more humble towards medal-winning athletes than former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh? This is what is being claimed in a story on the website Postcard News based on two photographs.



Postcard News published a post showing two pictures of former PM Manmohan Singh and PM Narendra Modi posing with sportspersons who won medals in international events. The first picture shows Singh sitting with his wife Gursharan Kaur, UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi and the then Union minister for sports while the medal winners are standing behind them. The second picture shows Modi standing and interacting with medal winners who are seated around him in the chairs. The message along with the picture on Postcard News reads: "Pic 1- Everyone sitting except medal winners. Pic 2- Everyone is sitting except the Prime Minister." See the difference".



The post paints Singh in a poor light and compared him to PM Modi who kept standing while the athletes were offered chairs.

India Today fact checked the post to verify the claim made by Postcard News. We found that the claim is misleading as it has selectively picked up pictures from two different occasions to drive home a point.



By reverse searching the first picture of Singh on Google, we found that it was the picture taken on August 17, 2012. The six medal winners at the London Olympic Games had met the then PM Singh at his official residence. While, the second photo of Modi with the medal winners was clicked on April 30, 2018, when India's CWG medal winners met him at his Lok Kalyan Marg residence. Modi congratulated the medal winners and also interacted with them.



But there are several other pictures of both the leaders publicly available which show them interacting with the players on different occasions. Contrary to what the report on Postcard News claims, there are also pictures in which Singh is standing with the players while PM Modi is posing for a group photograph in which he is sitting in the chair while the medal winners stand behind him. This debunks the claim.



The following picture was taken when Singh felicitated CWG medal winners at his residence on October 15, 2010.

In another picture, Singh can be seen interacting with the medal winners of Asian Games 2010 in New Delhi on December 04, 2010.

Here is a picture of PM Modi sitting while medal winners were standing behind him for a group photograph. Modi had hosted the 2014 Asian Games winners at his residence. He posed with the athletes and officials. The photo was tweeted by PM Modi himself on October 14, 2014. The picture is available in the the media coverage section on PM Modi's website dated October 16, 2014.

With our medal winning athletes. pic.twitter.com/RntpmE1v5f Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) October 14, 2014

We also found pictures in which both PM Modi as well as the athletes were standing. This one was clicked when the PM greeted Rio Olympics-bound athletes.



From our fact check, we found that the claim made by Postcard News was incorrect.