At least 6 people died and many got injured after a massive fire broke out on the 18th floor of a residential building in the Tardeo area of central Mumbai on the morning of January 22, Saturday.

A video of a man falling from a high-rise building is circulating on social media claiming to be from the spot of this tragedy in Tardeo.

advertisement

The archived version of a similar post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. While the video is indeed from Mumbai, it is from a fire incident that took place in October 2021.

With the help of a keyword search, we found the same video in question carried by multiple media outlets in October 2021.

According to a report by the Times of India, this video is from a skyscraper located at Currey Road in Mumbai. On October 22, 2021, a major fire broke out on the 19th floor of the 61-storey One Avighna Park tower.

As per reports, the man seen in the video is Arun Tiwari, a 30-year-old security guard. While trying to save himself from the flames, Arun fell to his death from the balcony of a flat on the 19th floor. His death was confirmed by doctors at the hospital who declared him brought dead. No other casualty was reported in the incident.

A video report about the incident tweeted by the Hindustan Times on October 22 can be seen below.

A huge blaze erupted at a high-rise in central Mumbai leaving one person dead.



The level-four fire was reported from a 60-storied building, named One Avighna Park pic.twitter.com/l9sc9swWHH— Hindustan Times (@htTweets) October 22, 2021

Fire breakout in Tardeo, Mumbai

A fire broke out at around 7.30 am on January 22, 2022, in the Kamla building, a highrise in Nana Chowk in Mumbai's Tardeo area. According to reports, at least six people were killed and 28 got hurt in the incident. The Mumbai Fire Brigade has designated it as a Level-3 (major) fire.

Massive fire breaks out at the 18th floor of a high-rise building in Mumbai. India Today’s Paras Dama reports from outside Kamla Building in Tardeo.#ITVideo #Mumbai #MumbaiFire | @SnehaMordani, @parasdamaa pic.twitter.com/LuRwBcHZxi— IndiaToday (@IndiaToday) January 22, 2022

Officials said prima facie the fire was caused after some cables in the building's electricity duct melted. Smoke from the electricity duct soon spread to multiple floors. The fire suppression system of the building failed to work.

It is however clear that the video of a man falling from a high-rise building is old and not related to the fire break out in Mumbai's Tardeo area.