A set of four images of violence over reported land dispute in Pakistan has resurfaced and is being falsely linked to the communal clashes that hit Telinipara in West Bengal earlier this week. The set of images shows a man bleeding from his head, while two others show people rushing to douse flames that have engulfed thatched houses. In another image, an injured woman can be seen lying on a bed as an aftermath of the violence.

The viral Facebook narratives claim that the injured are Hindus and Muslims are setting fire on Hindu localities in Bengal. Major clashes broke out in West Bengal's Telinipara from May 12 when people from Wardibazar, an adjacent area, tried to enter Telinipara. Several people have reportedly tested positive of COVID-19 in Wardibazar. According to a report, when 10 people from the area were headed to Telinipara, to use a public toilet, locals objected and clashes followed.

One such viral caption, when translated to English, reads, "If today you cannot raise your voice against the Hindus of Bengal then please understand that in future if you are attacked, nobody will raise their voice. Bengal is burning. Mamata is sleeping. #Dying_Hindu_Burning_Bengal."

(Original Texts in Hindi: ''#अगर आज आप बंगाल में #हिन्दुओ पर होने वाले अत्याचार के खिलाफ आवाज नही उठा सकते हो तो समझ लेना यदि #भविष्य में तुम पर होने वाले अत्याचार पर भी कोई आवाज नही उठाएगा! जल रहा है बंगाल, सो रही है ममता! #मरता_हिन्दू_जलता_बंगाल")

Click here to see the post and here for the archive link.





The images have been widely shared on Facebook with netizens misidentifying the incident as one from Telinipara, and captions claiming that houses of dalit Hindus were burnt in the area.





The images have also been shared in Bangla, with similar claims as proof of atrocities against Hindus in Telinipara. One such post reads, "Traitors have burnt the houses of innocent Hindus, besides the honour of Hindu mothers and sisters have been ruined. And begum abolished the living rights of Hindus."



(Original text in Bangla: হুগলীর তেলেনি পাড়ায় জিহাদীরা জ্বালিয়ে দিলো অবলা হিন্দুদের ঘরবাড়ি তার সঙ্গে চলছে হিন্দু মা বোনের ইজ্জত হরণের পালা আর বেগম কেড়ে নিয়েছে হিন্দুদের বাচার অধিকার, এরজন্য দায়ী একমাত্র হাওয়াইচটি) You can click here to see the post and here for archived link.





Also Read: Photo Of Rohingya Muslims Shared As Plight Of Migrants In Lockdown

Fact Check

BOOM was able to ascertain that the images are not from West Bengal's Telinipara as the terrain of the area is starkly different from what is seen in the images. Upon reverse searching the images, we found a Twitter account @voice_minority that tweeted the images of the injured man and woman. They were identified as Gulab and his wife who were attacked by neighbourhood goons in Rahimar Khan, Punjab, Pakistan. Gulab's wife was sexually assaulted. The images were tweeted on May 11.

Once again attack on #Hindu community, Gulab and his wife were attacked by neighborhood goons in Rahimyar khan, Punjab.

His wife was sexually assaulted in front of Public.

Shame on you people who are torturing minorities in #Pakistan. @KashifMD @bilalfqi @NatashaFatah @AWGoraya pic.twitter.com/4m2wfeQJqB — Voice of Pakistan Minority (@voice_minority) May 11, 2020

The incident was also reported on Gulf News on May 12 but the identity of the injured couple was not verified by the publication. The article was headlined as, "Pakistan: Hindu couple in rural Punjab brutally attacked, reason unclear."

Additionally, we found a reply by the Pakistan Punjab police's Twitter handle that stated that the couple was injured because of a property dispute and was not an incident of hate crime.

یہ بنیادی طور پر زمین کی ملکیت کا تنازع ہے جس کے ہندو اور مسلم دونوں خاندان دعویدار ہیں جس پر فریقین باہم دست و گریبان ہوئے دونوں طرف سے زخمی ہونے والے افراد کی میڈیکل رپورٹ پر کاروائی جاری ہے جس کے بعد مزید قانونی کاروائی کی جائے گی. — Punjab Police Official (@OfficialDPRPP) May 11, 2020

Also Read: Video Of COVID-19 Mock Drill In Colombia Shared As True Incident Images of burning houses We could trace the images of thatched houses engulfed in fire to tweets from two Pakistani Twitter handles. According to the tweets, the houses of Hindus were burnt in Sindh's Tharparkar.

A report coming from #Tharparkar Near Border area of Sindh

Around 21 houses of Hindus are burnt in Tadados, #Tharparkar, Sindh



The source says that some people, including children are burnt & in critical condition.



This is condition of #Hindus in Pakistan.#SaveUsandHindusByPak pic.twitter.com/BETXZwKR6L — Aneesa Baluch انیسہ بلوچ (@AneesaBaluch) May 11, 2020





At the same time while Kabul and Ningarhar is burning because of the Taliban terrorists attacks sponsored by Pakistan, Pakistan Army burned a whole village in Baluchistan!



The whole region must stand against Pakistan and its terrorist activities! pic.twitter.com/4mQ0279y7G — Col Rahman Rahmani (@rahmanrahmanee) May 12, 2020