In 2021, the Modi government announced the construction of India’s first tunnel under the Brahmaputra River in Assam.

In this backdrop of this, an image of an underwater tunnel is circulating on social media. It is claimed that this is India’s first tunnel to be built under the Brahmaputra River in Assam.

However, Fact Crescendo found the claim to be false. The viral image is of Fehmarn Tunnel connecting Denmark and Germany.

WHAT’S THE CLAIM?

The claim in the post reads, “This is new India. India’s first underwater road and railway line. This tunnel is about 14km long and built under the Brahmaputra River in Assam.”

Facebook | Archive

FACT CHECK

Google Reverse Image Search on the viral image led us to the Ramboll website where the same image was published in 2017.

According to the website, Ramboll, Arup and TEC have together won tenders for consulting assignments for the Fehmarn Belt connection between Denmark and Germany. This group has collaborated since 2009 on designing the tunnel..

Archive

Taking a clue from this we searched using various keywords which led us to another website that provided the details of the Fehmarn tunnel.

The construction work of the tunnel began in 2020 on the Denmark side and in 2021 on the German side. The length of the tunnel will be 18km long. This will reduce the travel time between Denmark and Germany. The estimated year of completion of the overall project is 2029.

Further, we found a YouTube video showing the construction work of the tunnel. This video explained how huge quantities of steel and concrete are used to construct this 18 km-long tunnel.

Thus, it is clear that the viral image is concept art and has no connection with India’s first underwater tunnel across the Brahmaputra River.

Brahmaputra River Underwater Tunnel

On 17 May 2022, Sentinel Assam reported that Railway Ministry and Road Transport Ministry along with Border Road Organisation are planning to construct an underwater road cum rail tunnel across the Brahmaputra River.

This will be a 9.8 KM long tunnel. It will connect Jakhlabandha railway station on the south bank and Dhaliabil railway station on the northern bank of Brahmaputra.

CONCLUSION

Fact Crescendo found that the viral image is not of the Brahmaputra River underwater Tunnel. It is the image of the Fehmarn Tunnel connecting Denmark and Germany.