Following the row over the controversial remarks on Prophet Mohammad, a video, claiming that Gulf companies are sending Indian workers back home, is doing the rounds on social media.

This comes in the backdrop of controversial comments given by an ex-BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma against the Prophet. Users claim that many Gulf companies are retaliating to those comments by laying off Indian workers and giving them flight tickets back home.

The video is shared on Facebook with the caption: “कतर की कम्पनी “Redco international” से भारतीय श्रमिकों को टिकट देकर वापस इंडिया भेजा जा रहा। अब यहां रह रहे अंधभक्तो को कोई फर्क नहीं पड़ता कि उनकी हरकतों से हमारे ही भाई कितनी मुश्किलों में आ गए हैं।” (English translation: Indian workers are being sent back home by giving tickets from Qatar company “Redco International”. Now the blind devotees living here don’t care how much trouble our brothers have come to because of their actions.)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim, and found it to be MISLEADING.

On analysing the video, we could hear a person mentioning Redco International. Taking a cue from this, we conducted a Google Reverse Image Search on the video keyframes with certain keywords. This directed us to a recent Facebook post that carried the same viral video, claiming that it is fake and the incident happened almost three months ago.

Searching further, we were directed to a March 29, 2022 video on a YouTube channel- QN Qatar. The description and caption on the video reads: “Redco International receiving tickets”.

Investing further, we found that in March 2022, workers of Redco International in Doha, Qatar, protested demanding their three-month withheld salaries. As the company was running into losses, they responded by laying off around 7,000 workers and giving them free flight tickets to go back to their countries. YouTube videos claim that the same can be seen here, here and here.

Although we could not verify the exact location and date of the viral video, it is evident from the above information that the video has been on the Internet since March 2022 and is not related to the recent Prophet controversy.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news