A 15-second video of a man crying at the feet of policemen is going viral on social media with the claim that he is a former BSP MP and wanted gangster in Uttar Pradesh who surrendered fearing an encounter.

Text superimposed on the video says, “He is not a beggar but former MP of BSP and a wanted gangster. And this is how he surrendered in front of UP police after they announced a reward over his head. Ye dar accha hai.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the man in the video is a gangster from UP named Naeem, who surrendered before Sambhal police in September last year fearing an encounter. Though former BSP MP and wanted gangster Dhananjay Singh surrendered at a Prayagraj court recently, the man in the video is no political bigwig.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

AFWA investigation

With the help of InVID and reverse image search, we found that the video and related images were carried by several news websites in September last year.

As per these reports, the man falling at the feet of the policeman was indeed a wanted gangster of UP named Naeem. There was a reward of Rs 15,000 announced on his name.

The man later surrendered at Nakasha police station in Sambhal, as he was scared that he might be killed in an encounter. UP Police had launched an operation against criminals, which had forced many to surrender on their own. Naeem was one among them.

The same video of Naeem’s surrender was also uploaded by the YouTube channel of “Dainik Jagran” on September 28, 2020.

Recently, former BSP MP Dhananjay Singh had surrendered before a special MP-MLA court in Prayagraj. He was facing a bounty of Rs 25,000 in connection with the murder of a former block pramukh from Mau and history-sheeter Ajit Singh. Dhananjay Singh surrendered a day after police declared the reward on him.

Therefore, it is confirmed that the man seen in the video pleading for his life at the feet of UP police is not a former BSP MP, but a gangster named Naeem.