Spread the truth:

Old video of a Father in Law beating his son in law for beating up his daughter for dowry causing loss of eye and miscarriage is used for political reasons.

A video is viral in which a group of people are beating a man brutally, on road, near parked cars.

The text along with the video reads “B.j.p. विधायक अनिल उपाध्याय की इस हरकत पर क्या कहेगे मोदी जी,

इस video को इतना वायरल करो की ये पूरा हिन्दुस्तान देख सके..👇”

Translation: What will Modi ji say on this escapade of BJP MLA Anil Upadhyay. Make this video so viral so entire India can see it.

Update: 14th May 2019

Udit Raj, who joined Congress recently after not getting ticket from BJP tweeted this, deleted now, archived here

He wrote –

“Gujarat BJP MLA Anil Upadhyaya and his goons are beating a Dalit boy because they were unable to digest that he bought a new car”

B.j.p. विधायक अनिल उपाध्याय की इस हरकत पर क्या कहेगे मोदी जी,

इस video को इतना वायरल करो की ये पूरा हिन्दुस्तान देख सके..👇

दलित पिछड़े अलीशान कार में नहीं घूम नहीं सकते हैं pic.twitter.com/PdpBNVn6vh — Raju choudhary ,youth congress(-उपाध्यक्ष-) jaipur (@RajuCho41426028) April 28, 2019

Pakistani Handles

Syed izhar ur rehman shah tweeted

“In India Beating Dalit boy by BJP leader goes Viral on Social Media.. Gujarat BJP MLA Anil Upadhyay beating a Dalit boy, because he purchased a new luxurious car.Unable to digest this the BJP MLA and his supporters smashing the car also. Dalits facing Hindutva terrorism in India”

Approx 1500 Retweets

In India Beating Dalit boy by BJP leader goes Viral on Social Media..

Gujarat BJP MLA Anil Upadhyay beating a Dalit boy, because he purchased a new luxurious car.Unable to digest this the BJP MLA and his supporters smashing the car also. Dalits facing Hindutva terrorism in India pic.twitter.com/n0xvJ6Ri2E — ⚔Syed izhar ur rehman⚔🇵🇰 (@Green_Blood_712) May 5, 2019

Think Tank @RRazzaqPMLN

President of Pakistani American Think Tank, political/community activist, media reporter

Shining India where a Dalit boy being beaten by BJP supporters just because Dalit boy bought a car which they didn’t like it. Minorities r being Lynched daily in India @ UN @ UNHumanRights @ WSJ @ nytimes @ SushmaSwaraj @ narendramodi @ Razarumi @ HamidMirPAK @ GulBukhari @ BBCUrdu

Approx 600 Retweets

This is real India where beating lower cast Dalits is common.

Gujarat BJP MLA Anil Upadhyay beating a "Dalit" boy, because he purchased a new luxurious car. Unable to digest this the BJP MLA and his supporters smashed the car also.

Dalits are facing Hindutva terrorism in India. pic.twitter.com/pEBwRw3PMD — Azhar Panni (@AzharPanni) May 7, 2019

In India Beating Dalit boy by BJP leader goes Viral on Social Media..

Gujarat BJP MLA Anil Upadhyay beating a Dalit boy, because he purchased a new luxurious car.Unable to digest this the BJP MLA and his supporters smashing the car also. terrorism in India pic.twitter.com/OFDPnQ0SDJ — Rehan (@NEWS_BILAWAL) May 7, 2019

In India Beating Dalit boy by BJP leader goes Viral on Social Media..

Gujarat BJP MLA Anil Upadhyay beating a Dalit boy, because he purchased a new luxurious car.Unable to digest this the BJP MLA and his supporters smashing the car also. terrorism in India pic.twitter.com/idp0PH4hQJ — Samreen Malick .📶 (@Ptiislamabad1) May 6, 2019

India BJP leader along with goons ruthlessly beat up a Dalit boy In India BJP MLA Anil Upadhyay in Gujarat beating a Dalit boy,because he purchased new luxurious car.Unable to digest this the BJP MLA and his supporters smashing car also.Dalits facing Hindutva terrorism in India pic.twitter.com/Y4nAleGFU6 — Sami Ullah Malik (@drsumalik) May 6, 2019

In India BJP leader along with goons ruthlessly beat up a Dalit boy BJP MLA Anil Upadhyay in Gujarat beating a Dalit boy because he purchased a new luxurious car. Unable to digest this the BJP MLA and his supporters smashing the car also Dalits facing Hindutva terrorism in India pic.twitter.com/G7miRnOJAQ — Chaudhry Tabraiz Aurah (@TabraizAurah) May 5, 2019

Truth

Anil Upadhyay is one of the biggest mystery of Election 2019. He can be found in any state, city, can have any face but no one knows him.

Since a month many videos of harassment, beating, family feud etc are viral claimed as work of MLA Anil Upadhyay, some claim it to be BJP’s while others claimed as Congress’ but no MLA with such name could be found in any party.

This viral video is 2 years old i.e. April 2017, Gujarat.

This was a family feud, a dowry issue. The ‘victim’ in this video can be heard begging in Gujarati “Papa, please forgive me, I won’t do it ever again”. The man beating is saying ” My daughter had 7 stitches as you pushed him on stairs”

The ‘victim’ in this video is son in law of the man beating him. He asked for a car in dowry and also assaulted his wife, i.e. daughter of the culprit in video.

The man being beaten, son in law is Hardik Bharwad, while the one beating, the father in law is Rambhai Bharwad.

Hardik harrased, Ratan, his wife for dowry which also resulted in 7 stitches on her eye, damaging it and miscarriage.

This video was uploaded on YouTube on 5th April 2017 or before

Although our first trial didn’t get much info but this may help you all in such cases so just sharing.

One should always observe the video closely, not only the focus point i.e. the culprit and victim in this case but also look around, in background etc. Look for clues like Shop banners which usually has Place’s name, vehicle registration number, language of text written around. Should also observe the audio, which language are the speaking in, what are they talking about etc.

In our investigation, the first thing we noticed is the SUV’s number which we messaged to a number and got it’s details

The number of the vehicle is GJ01RV2411

We messaged “VAHAN GJ01RV2411” to “7738299899” and received following reply

More Fakes

B.j.p. विधायक अनिल उपाध्याय की इस हरकत पर क्या कहेगे मोदी जी,

इस video को इतना वायरल करो की ये पूरा हिन्दुस्तान देख सके..👇 pic.twitter.com/otE9ov2CBJ — Pooja Yadav (@Poojasocialist) April 27, 2019

B.j.p. विधायक अनिल उपाध्याय की इस हरकत पर क्या कहेगे मोदी जी,

इस video को इतना वायरल करो की ये पूरा हिन्दुस्तान देख सके..👇

दलित पिछड़े अलीशान कार में नहीं घूम नहीं सकते हैं pic.twitter.com/5WIIJ4qo5F — अमरनाथ(मंडल महासचिव 'भीम सेना') इलाहाबाद उ. प्र. (@AmarNat94778546) April 27, 2019

B.j.p. विधायक अनिल उपाध्याय की इस हरकत पर क्या कहेगे मोदी जी,

इस video को इतना वायरल करो की ये पूरा हिन्दुस्तान देख सके..👇

दलित पिछड़े अलीशान कार में नहीं घूम नहीं सकते हैं pic.twitter.com/3mFEyuqYKP — Raju choudhary ,youth congress(-उपाध्यक्ष-) jaipur (@RajuCho41426028) April 28, 2019

B.j.p. विधायक अनिल उपाध्याय की इस हरकत पर क्या कहेगे मोदी जी,

इस video को इतना वायरल करो की ये पूरा हिन्दुस्तान देख सके..👇

दलित पिछड़े अलीशान कार में नहीं घूम नहीं सकते हैं pic.twitter.com/PdpBNVn6vh — Raju choudhary ,youth congress(-उपाध्यक्ष-) jaipur (@RajuCho41426028) April 28, 2019

Related