A picture of a crashed helicopter is being shared by several Pakistani social media handles with the claim that it is an IAF chopper that recently crashed in Ladakh amid tensions between India and China.

Pakistani journalist Mubasher Lucman posted the image on his verified Twitter handle and wrote, "Indians please check is this your M 17 crashed in Laddakh? We will keep you posted of any developments".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the picture to be misleading. The viral image is a scene from an IAF chopper crash in Kedarnath in 2018.

Many have shared the same picture with misleading claims on Twitter and Facebook.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse image search and appropriate keywords, we found that similar images of the man in a red sweater standing atop the chopper were carried in media reports from 2018 regarding an IAF helicopter crash near Kedarnath temple in Uttarakhand.

India Today had also carried a similar image on its report titled "Indian Air Force helicopter crashes in Kedarnath" published on April 3, 2018.

According to the report, the incident took place on April 3, 2018, when an IAF Mi-17 helicopter crashed during landing after it hit the perimeter wall of the Kedarnath temple.

According to an NDTV report, the chopper carrying eight people was on its way from Guptkashi to Kedarnath when it crashed while landing, injuring four people, including the pilot.

News agency ANI had also posted video clips from the accident spot on April 3, 2018, on its YouTube channel.

We also found that a similar image was published in reports by "The Times of India" and other news websites (https://www.ibtimes.co.in/photos/iaf-chopper-crash-lands-near-kedarnath-temple-16212-slide-86544) in 2018.

We also checked for media reports on whether any IAF chopper recently crashed in Ladakh, but did not find any. Hence, it is clear that the viral picture is more than two years old and linking it to Ladakh is incorrect.