A graphical poster is going viral on social media. This poster has a picture of Babasaheb Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar and a statement has been written quoting him,- “The day a tribal woman will reach the highest office of President of India. India’s reservations should be abolished. Many users are sharing this graphical poster.

At the same time, there are many users who are sharing only the text written on the poster.

Further, there are also some users who are demanding from the President of India Draupadi Murmu by sharing this text that reservation should be abolished.

https://twitter.com/Ajay_Tiwari_/status/1551220055706181633?s=20&t=S57Fk2iSDE4DJhyfkLcvOQ

Fact Check:

We did a simple Google search to find out the reality of the viral graphical text. We could not find any such statement or article quoting Babasaheb, in which could prove that he had talked about abolishing reservation after becoming the Adivasi President.

After this we contacted senior journalist and editor of ‘ Dalit Dastak ‘ magazine Ashok Das. Describing this graphical poster as fake, Ashok Das questioned that those who made such a claim by quoting Baba Saheb should also tell where did he make such a statement ? Ashok Das said that seeing the ‘surname’ of those who post such claims will one can get an idea of why this fake poster is being shared. He gives correct information in this context that Babasaheb has neither written such thing anywhere, nor has he made any such statement in any public meeting or seminar etc. So this claim is completely false.

Ashok Das also said that it is not a conspiracy , because being the first from the tribal community to be elected to the highest office of the country, it becomes easy for the opponents of reservation and the opponents of the constitutional rights of the deprived sections to spread this propaganda. That now there is no need of reservation in the country. He also said that when such messages are made viral, it is not the work of any one person but it happens institutionally. Therefore, these institutions should be exposed , which keep promoting such fake content.

Conclusion:

Therefore, DFRAC fact check proves that the claim being made by quoting Babasaheb is completely false. Hence, the claim of social media users is fake.

Claim- Babasaheb had said- reservation should be abolished after a tribal woman become president

Claimed by– Social media users

Fact Check – Fake