The 21-year-old Harnaaz Kaur Sandhu made India proud as she bagged the Miss Universe 2021 title beating contestants from 79 countries.

Soon after, netizens started looking up for Harnaaz’s social media handles, and many, including celebrities, fell for the fake profile trap. While fake social media handles often prop up impersonating celebrities, what was interesting in this case was Twitter awarding a blue tick to a fake handle.

advertisement

We looked into some imposter Twitter handles of Harnaaz. One of them was earlier impersonating a Colombian model and was interacting with users in Spanish. Only when netizens questioned a Punjabi’s Spanish connection did Twitter realise its mistake.

So how did Twitter’s blue bird fly to the wrong branch?

Soon after the news of Harnaaz’s victory broke out, a Twitter handle “@harnaazsandhu03”, portraying itself as her official account, grabbed the spotlight. This account mainly posted images and videos from the Miss Universe 2021 contest.

Numerous celebrities, including Sushmita Sen and Lara Dutta, and politician Shashi Tharoor tagged this handle while posting their wishes for Harnaaz. Even prominent media outlets such as “The Economic Times”, “Business Insider” and “Delhi Times” too tagged the same handle. The follower count of this handle shot up drastically to over 50,000 within a day.

Fact-checkers come in picture

The handle “@harnaazsandhu03” soon came on the radar of fact-heckers. “Newschecker” pointed out that this handle was earlier active as “@malopezpz” and was sharing content related to Colombian model Mar­a Alejandra López Pérez.

Interestingly, most of the tweets that interacted with the handle “@malopezpz” were found to be in Spanish.

Even Twitter slips up

The above account soon got deactivated after gaining a sizeable number of followers. Very soon, another Twitter handle, “@HarnaazSandhu”, became active and was even given a verified status by Twitter.

Ajayendra Urmila Tripathi, an OSINT expert and programmer, revealed on Twitter that the verified handle “@HarnaazSandhu” was earlier active as “@harnaazsandhu03” and “@malopezpz”.

He told India Today that he has a big database of fake accounts that he regularly tracks. Using this database, he found that the Twitter accounts “@HarnaazSandhu”, “@harnaazsandhu03” and “@malopezpz” belong to the same person. “All three accounts have the same Twitter ID, i.e. 2259459978. A person can change his Twitter handle but his Twitter ID remains the same,” he said.

So did Twitter act in haste?

‘Blue bird’ flies away

What happened next added to the entire confusion. The blue tick was removed from the handle “@HarnaazSandhu”. Following this development, the follower count of this account was first reduced to two from almost 75,000, and then after some time, the handle was suspended by Twitter.

advertisement

The microblogging platform also replied to a user, saying that the account was suspended for violating Twitter rules.

We asked Twitter why this handle was first verified and then suspended in such a short span. We are still awaiting their response.

Soon after the Twitter handle “@HarnaazSandhu” got deactivated, “@harnaazsandhu03” again became active. Till the time of filing this story, this handle had garnered around 83K followers. The bio section mentions that the handle belongs to Miss Universe 2021 Harnaaz Kaur Sandhu.

Real Harnaaz speaks up

Harnaaz has a verified Instagram account called “@harnaazsandhu_03”. She posted a story on this account, saying that her actual Twitter account is “@HarnaazKaur”.

Last checked, the Twitter account “@HarnaazKaur” had over 14,000 followers and counting. We all hope this is the right profile!