Did Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's chopper enter West Bengal on Tuesday (February 5) defying Mamata Bannerjee's resistance?

Facebook page "Amit Shah Fans", followed by more than 5,00,000 people, posted a video on Wednesday (February 6) of a chopper landing, with the claim in Hindi; "Bangal mein Yogi Adityanath ki Helicopter entry."

ENGLISH TRANSLATION: Yogi Adityanath's helicopter entered Bengal.

India Today Fact Check (AFWA - Anti-Fake News War Room) found this claim to be entirely false. Yogi Adityanath's chopper never entered Bengal on Tuesday. This viral video is a year-old when Yogi visited Tripura for election campaigning.

advertisement

The three-minute-long video shows a chopper landing at a temporary helipad in some remote village. Yogi gets down from the chopper and joins his cavalcade before being welcomed by a few Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters. This post was shared by more than 1,500 users and viewed by more than 1,00,000 people till the time of writing this article.

Most of the people believed this viral post and cheered up Yogi's defiance against the political arch-rival Mamata Bannerjee on Facebook.

Several media reports said that since West Bengal government refused to give permission to land Yogi Adityanath's chopper anywhere in the state, he took the land route from Bokaro to reach the public rally venue in Purulia.

Suspicious of this viral claim we watched each and every frame of the video, carefully. We found that Yogi Adityanath's car has a number plate beginning with "TR", which is not a registration number for West Bengal but of Tripura.

Car with Tripura number plate

We also found "Tripura" written on the pilot car and the fire brigade van present in Yogi's cavalcade.

Tripura Police vehicle

Tripura Fire Service vehicle

From several newspaper articles we found that Yogi Adityanath visited Tripura in February last year during the assembly poll. As per an article by "The Financial Express", Yogi Adityanath, during his two-day election tour to Tripura, visited places like Dharamnagar, Kanchanpur and Jubrajnagar.

We searched YouTube videos with keywords "Yogi Adityanath Dharamnagar copter" and found a same video uploaded as "Yogi Adityanath in Kanchanpur". It was uploaded on February 12, 2018.