‘The Kashmir Files’, Vivek Agnihotri’s controversial film on the exodus of Kashmiri Hindus in the 90s, has reportedly led to incidents of hate speech against Muslims. Amid this, a video of a woman assaulting a Muslim man on a train has gone viral with the claim that this incident was a ramification of the film.

Several people on Twitter and Facebook shared the video with captions like, “This is the current trend following the release of ‘The Kashmir Files’, Bharat Mata ki Jai. Jai Shree Ram.”

advertisement

ALSO READ | Many lies projected in The Kashmir Files, says former J&K CM Omar Abdullah

The India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found that this incident took place in October 2021 and has no connection with ‘The Kashmir Files’. The woman in the video is Madhu Sharma, a disciple of controversial preacher Yati Narsinghanand. She reportedly assaulted a Muslim man for pushing her while passing through the coach.

ALSO READ | Exposed business of terrorism through my film 'The Kashmir Files': Vivek Agnihotri

The viral posts are achieved here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of a keywords search, we found a news report on The Wire containing photos that appeared to be screengrabs from the viral video.

According to the report published on October 19, 2021, the woman seen in the viral video was Madhu Sharma, also known as Maa Madhura. Reportedly, she was a disciple of controversial religious leader Yati Narsinghanand. The woman reportedly assaulted a Muslim man on a train and “made him touch her feet for allegedly pushing her while passing through the railway coach gallery.”

According to The Wire, Sharma shared the viral video on her Facebook page on October 18, 2021. She has since locked her profile.

ALSO READ | Who wants Kashmir Files? KCR takes swipe at BJP

The same incident was also later reported by The Print and by another more online news portals in October 2021.

We could not independently verify the details of the incident as reported by these news outlets. But it is clear that this incident, which was first reported in October 2021, had nothing to do with ‘The Kashmir Files’.