A disturbing photo of a child with bruises and stitches below the eyes is going viral on social media with the claim that a 12-year-old Swedish kid was beaten up by a Muslim immigrant for having blue eyes.

The claim was made by a website called Daily Political News which used the picture of the injured child in an article titled Swedish Child Beaten By Muslim Immigrant For Having Blue Eyes. The article says that the incident took place in the Swedish city of Helsingborg and it was not reported as a hate crime due to liberal judges.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the article to be misleading. The child seen in the picture was bit by a Rottweiler at her home in Cardiff, United Kingdom, in 2008. She was only four years old then.

Verified Twitter user David Vance shared the misleading article and captioned it, Blue eyes are haram? His tweet was liked by more than 8,400 users and retweeted over 7,000 times.

advertisement Blue eyes are haram? https://t.co/PbaQ8iEAeL David Vance (@DVATW) December 31, 2019

Some Facebook pages and users have also shared the screenshot of Vance’s tweet.

When pointed out by some Twitter users that it is fake news, Vance responded that he tweeted a story concerning the assault of a young boy in Sweden and the accompanying photo is irrelevant to that.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse search tool, we found the viral photo in many international news websites. BBC says the injured kid in the photo is Sophie Willis, a four-year-old girl from Cardiff, who was attacked by a Rottweiler dog named Kaizer at her home in Cardiff in April 2008. Daily Mail had also covered the incident at that time.

In 2016, international fact-check website Snopes had also debunked the misleading claim. The Snopes report said the story of a boy being beaten up by a Muslim teenager for having blue eyes was built by Swedish newspaper Fria Tider in 2013.

As per Fria Tider, a 15-year-old boy had beaten up a fellow student after a disagreement over eye colour. However, the accused had claimed that he was misunderstood due to language difficulties, since his native language is Arabic. The article, however, does not state that the accused was a Muslim immigrant, or that the fight between the two resulted in serious injuries.