Following an uproar across the country over the government’s Agniveer scheme for recruitment in the armed forces, a claim has surfaced on the internet informing that the applicants have been asked their caste for recruitment in Army.

The claim in Hindi reads: “भारत के इतिहास में पहली बार “सेना भर्ती “ में जाति पूछी जा रही है। मोदी जी आपको “अग्निवीर” बनाना है या “जातिवीर””

(English translation: For the first time in the history of India, caste is being asked in “Army recruitment”. Modi ji you have to make “Agniveer” or “Jaativeer”)

The above post can be seen here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim and found it to be false.

Through a simple Google search with relevant keywords — ‘Army Recruitment’, ‘Caste’, ‘Form’ — we found many news reports covering fake claims. These reports can be seen here, here and here.

Defence Minister Rajanath Singh on Tuesday clarified that such claims are just rumours.

#WATCH | “It’s just a rumour. Earlier system, existing since pre-independence era, is going on. No change has been made. Old system is being continued,” says Defence Min Rajnath Singh on Opposition’s allegations that caste & religion certificates being asked for Agnipath scheme. pic.twitter.com/gtBJAtaSvP — ANI (@ANI) July 19, 2022

Meanwhile, in a tweet dated July 19, 2022, the Press Information Bureau (PIB) has also refuted the claims of caste being asked for Army recruitment.

It is to be noted that there is already a provision to show caste certificates for army recruitment, however, it is for administrative and operational requirements.

In 2013, the Army had clarified in an affidavit filed before the Supreme Court stating that it was just for administrative and operational requirements and had no role in the selection process.

Hence, with the above findings, we can conclude that the claim on social media is false.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news