The BJP, which has been facing criticism over the farm laws, particularly in Punjab, faced a huge setback in the recent local body elections in the state. The ruling Congress made a clean sweep of Punjab’s seven municipal corporations, apart from bagging the lion’s share of panchayat seats.

And now, a viral post on social media claims that Punjab has become a “BJP-free state” after “all three BJP MLAs” in the state joined the Congress. “Punjab Assembly has become BJP mukt as all 3 MLA’s hv joined INC,” reads one such post on Facebook.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. Punjab has two BJP MLAs at present, both of whom confirmed to us that they are still with the party.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

We could not find any credible media report on BJP MLAs in Punjab joining the Congress. Also, according to the Punjab Legislative Assembly website, the state presently has two BJP MLAs Arun Narang from Abohar and Dinesh Singh from Sujanpur.

We then reached out to Narang for better clarity on the matter.

Refuting the viral claim, Narang said, “The viral claim is baseless. First, BJP has two MLAs in Punjab and not three. And we have not joined the Congress. BJP had three MLAs in 2017, including Som Parkash, who was elected from Phagwara. However, he later resigned and contested in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Parkash is now the Union minister of state for commerce and industry.”

The Phagwara seat that was earlier represented by BJP’s Som Parkash fell vacant after he was elected to the Lok Sabha in 2019. However, in the by-election, BJP lost the seat to Congress and its strength in the House came down to two.

AFWA also spoke to Dinesh Singh, the second BJP MLA in Punjab. “I am a three-time MLA of BJP from Punjab and I am still with the party. The claim that I have joined Congress is false,” Singh said.

MLA and spokesperson of the Congress in Punjab, Raj Kumar Verka, also confirmed to us that the viral post is false, and no MLA from BJP has joined the Congress recently in the state.

Hence, it is clear that the viral claim saying “all three BJP MLAs” in Punjab have joined the Congress is false. BJP has only two MLAs in Punjab who are still with the party.