A video of a huge mass of snow sliding down a mountain is being circulated on social media with the claim that it shows the glacier burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli on Sunday.

A portion of Nanda Devi glacier broke off on February 7 morning, triggering an avalanche and flooding that washed away hydroelectric stations and homes, leaving at least 15 people dead and over 100 missing till last reports. Two NTPC hydel power projects, Tapovan-Vishnugad and Rishi Ganga, were extensively damaged and scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters came gushing in.

advertisement

The 30-second video is being shared with a caption in Hindi which translates to, “Video of glacier breaking off in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli”. Onlookers can be heard hooting with excitement in the clip.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. This video is of an avalanche at Kapuche Glacier Lake in Nepal in January 2021. No lives were lost in the incident.

Some netizens also claimed that this is the first video captured of the Uttarakhand glacier burst. The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVID tool, we found that the video is from last month and it shows an avalanche in Nepal. It was uploaded on January 9, 2021, by an Instagram user naren32 with the caption, Deadliest avalanche.

On January 11, the user uploaded a longer version of the same video on his Instagram handle and YouTube channel, stating that it is an avalanche at Kapuche Lake in Nepal.

The description to the YouTube video says, “Huge Avalanche ( ) at Kapuche Lake Sikles. The Kapuche Glacier lake is located at an altitude of 2546 meters from sea level. It lies inside the small village Sikles of Kaski district in the Annapurna region. This lake has been declared as the lowest altitude glacier lake in the world. We had to spend overnight at lake in order to catch this moment and it eventually paid off we were filming ourselves and all of sudden avalanche started, rest is history”.

Taking a cue from this, we did a keyword search on the Internet and found reports confirming that the video is from Kapuche Glacier Lake at Parche in Nepal’s Kaski district.

According to reports, a tourist named Shambhu Adhikari stumbled upon this view as he was recording himself playing a guitar.

We also found a report on the avalanche by The Weather Channel published on January 26, 2021. The report also says there were no casualties in the incident. Further, India Today’s Kathmandu correspondent confirmed to us that the video is from Nepal.

advertisement

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is around a month old and of an avalanche at Kapuche Glacier Lake in Nepal.

With inputs from Sourabh Bhatnagar in New Delhi