Indian Nationals stuck in Ukraine in this ongoing war situation is a matter of big concern for India. Consequently, the Government of India started an operation Ganga to evacuate Indian Students from Ukraine amidst the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. Meanwhile, a video is going viral on the internet. Sharing the video users are claiming that Putin greets Indian students evacuated From Ukraine.

Along with the post, Durai Raj K wrote, Russian President Putin himself directly went on aircraft of (AI) AIR INDIA to convince Indians. What a Respect for India. Be proud of to be an Indian.

Similarly, Srinivasan Krishnamoorthy wrote, Rushian President Putin himself went on aircraft of Air India to convince Indians. What a Respect for India. Be proud of to be an Indian. Many other users also have posted this on their handles.

Fact Check

On our fact check analysis we found that the viral video is completely fake and baseless. On reverse image search, we found that the viral video is of India’s Ambassador to Romania Rahul Srivastava interacting with Indian students evacuated from Ukraine. However, some users are sharing this video with the false claim that Putin himself interacted with the Indian students evacuating from Ukraine. After that, we also found a Tweet from the official account of DD news with the caption, “Watch | India’s Ambassador to Romania, Rahul Shrivastava, interacted with evacuated students from #Ukraine who were on their way to Mumbai from Romania.”

Watch | India's Ambassador to Romania, Rahul Shrivastava, interacted with evacuated students from #Ukraine who were on their way to Mumbai from Romania@eoiromania pic.twitter.com/QznhisS0Vd — DD News (@DDNewslive) February 26, 2022

Moreover, Piyush Goal has also shared the video on his Twitter account with the caption, “These encouraging words by India’s ambassador to Romania to our students returning home, is what the Govt. under PM @NarendraModi Ji stands for. Committed to every Indian anywhere in the world.”

ये जो देश है तेरा, स्वदेश है तेरा…🇮🇳 These encouraging words by India's ambassador to Romania to our students returning home, is what the Govt. under PM @NarendraModi ji stands for. Committed to every Indian anywhere in the world. निराश न होना, आस ना खोना! pic.twitter.com/4djL0NtOEc — Piyush Goyal (मोदी का परिवार) (@PiyushGoyal) February 26, 2022

Conclusion

Hence, it is clear that Putin has not come to greet Indian students evacuating from Ukraine. But, some users are sharing the video of India’s Ambassador to Romania Rahul Srivastava.