Spread the truth:

A video of a Teacher beating a student brutally has been viral last week on several social media platforms.

The video seems to have been taken by another student sitting on back bench who captured the incident.

But now the video is viral with a claim that the Teacher is a Christian and trashed a Hindu student for wearing Rudraksha.

Twitter

Sudarshan News Channel’s official twitter handle tweeted –

Translation: “A Government school Hindu student is being beaten because he has been wearing Rudraksha. Christian Teacher brutally trashed the student and evicted him from the school. M Stalin, is this your secularism?” “

archive

Suresh Chavhanke, CMD & Editor-in-Chief @SudarshanNewsTV tweeted –

“This Hindu student is being beaten up in a government school in Tamil Nadu because he was wearing “Rudraksha”..!! Christian teacher brutally beat up the student and also banished him from school..!!



This Hindu student is being beaten up in a government school in Tamil Nadu because he was wearing “Rudraksha”..!! Christian teacher brutally beat up the student and also banished him from school..!!@mkstalin @PTI_News @BJP4TamilNadu @CMOTamilnadu pic.twitter.com/ao0nabdQTb — Suresh Chavhanke “Sudarshan News” (@SureshChavhanke) October 17, 2021

archive

, Sr. Journalist.. Producer in @SudarshanNewsTV ‘s tweet was retweeted by more than 4500 people. The tweet has been deleted but archived here

Facebook

Truth

There is no communal angle involved, the teacher, Mr. Subramnian trashed the student for skipping the class.

A government school teacher who meted out corporal punishment to a class 12 student, for skipping classes, was arrested and remanded, police said on Saturday.https://t.co/XevFHz5mnN — Express Chennai (@ie_chennai) October 16, 2021

“A government school teacher who meted out corporal punishment to a class 12 student, for skipping classes, was arrested and remanded, police said on Saturday.

A video of the teacher flogging the student and repeatedly kicking him went viral on social media. The video showed the teacher holding the boy’s hair and thrashing and kicking him in front of his classmates, one of whom reportedly took the video without the teacher’s knowledge. The student, who was pinned to the floor on his knees, can be seen pleading and sobbing. The 56-year-old teacher was arrested on Friday and remanded. Confirming the arrest of the teacher Subramaniam, a senior police official told PTI that cases under sections 294 (obscene act), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), Juvenile Justice Act and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act have been booked against the Physics teacher. “He was arrested following a complaint by the 17-year-old affected student of the Government Nandanar Boys Higher Secondary School in Chidambaram. Further investigation is on,” the official added. The student sustained injuries and has been admitted to the government hospital. Police said the teacher went overboard as the student had skipped classes.” – Express Chennai



ANI Reported –

More Sources – TimesNow Zee5 NDTV

Further, we searched and found a similar Incident which is not yet confirmed. It says a Christian teacher, Mr. Joyson, CSI Anderson School in Kanchipuram, humiliated students for wearing Rudraksha, against which student’s parents wrote a letter to the CM.

Kovai Sathyan, AIADMK Spokesperson , IT wing zonal secretary-Chennai, tweeted the letter condemning the act by Teacher Jayson.

We used Google Lens to Translate the Tamil language to English and this is what we found (We can not confirm the translation by Google but it does give an idea of the incident though) –

In Summary, the brutal beating viral video doesn’t have any communal angle.

Sudarshan News have been found spreading misinformation few times earlier too

Sudarshan TV uses a photo of Bangladeshi activists of 2014 as Rohingya Criminals of 2017 https://t.co/jLndqDaLoC pic.twitter.com/gxqh7d8e7q — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) October 6, 2017

An old Venezuela's video of beheading, is added to an UP's video of a Muslim mob beating a man suggesting they killed him.

A video is viral on WhatsApp which shows a mob pulling down a man off his bike and dragging him inside followed by a gruesome…https://t.co/rrIlgD9eLB pic.twitter.com/pUcS9O5Uci — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) September 3, 2021

A set of old photo of an honor killing with an inter-faith wedding card is viral with Fake “Love Jihad” angle. https://t.co/pzt1ez5fHe — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) September 13, 2020

That viral video of a mob with swords is not from Bhopal, nor are they shouting against RSS. https://t.co/dnJM53SsDz pic.twitter.com/9EpIW6lZZr — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) July 8, 2019

CMD Sudarshan News, Suresh Chavhanke tweeted that while Muslims were gifted free kits in Ramzan, Hindus were not allowed to go outside on Ram Navami, Hanuman Jayanti etc.

Truth: No one was allowed this year, no gifts distributed. The photo is 5 years old https://t.co/KwppgbwbN2 pic.twitter.com/uJxInxhiSI — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) May 14, 2020

Related