A Facebook user named ‘PM Narendra Modi Mission 2019’ shared a post on 31 May 2019. There is a video shared in this post. The post as translated from Hindi quoted “For the second time, the Modi Government, which has come to power, has made four major announcements for the private job employees.” This post claims – 4 great news for private job employees. Modi government’s big announcement.

This post claims that Narendra Modi’s new government after coming to power has taken four prime decisions for private job employees based on special category. Although in the description it says four decisions, but the video has seven decisions shown.

While listening to the video, we can hear repeatedly – like the video, subscribe to the channel. Write Jai Hind in the comments. These things make the apprehension about the truth of this video. In addition, such news is not available in any newspaper or TV news. This lets us question the authenticity of the video. Let us see what the facts are!

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA:

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

We first search the new government of Narendra Modi’s swearing in ceremony on 30 May 2019. After this, we found the news of the first cabinet meeting of Narendra Modi’s new Cabinet. This meeting took place on 31 May 2019. Prime Minister Modi himself tweeted about the decisions taken in this first meeting.

Our Government’s first decision dedicated to those who protect India!



Major changes approved in PM’s Scholarship Scheme under the National Defence Fund including enhanced scholarships for wards of police personnel martyred in terror or Maoist attacks. https://t.co/Vm90BD77hm pic.twitter.com/iXhFNlBCIc — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 31, 2019

TwitterLink | ArchivedLink

The news website ‘Live Mint’ published decisions taken in this cabinet meeting in the news dated 31 May 2019. The decision is as follows:

1. Under the Prime Minister’s Farmer Scheme, 14.5 million farmers are included in the scheme.

2. Provision will be made to provide pension for 30 million businesspersons after the age of 60.

3. Pension to farmers over the age of 60 for next three years.

4. 13 thousand crores for animal health care.

5. Changes in the Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme.

LivemintPost | ArchivedLink

You can read the news of this meeting by ‘The Hindu’ on the link below:

ThehinduPost

In this news, we did not get any information according to the claims made in the video. Then we investigated the claims one by one.

The claims of the decisions in the video and the fact is as follows:

1.Under the Prime Minister’s credit plan, financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh will be given to those who earn less than Rs 18,000 per month in the private job. After 10 years, this amount has to be returned. With this amount, you can buy a house or do any business. The special thing is that, there will be no interest charged on this amount.

Reality: There is no such credit plan.

2. Those who have less than 25 thousand rupees per month in private jobs, they will get priority for gas cylinders and houses. Between 2019 and 2025, the government will help them to build a house.

Reality: Any one can get a valid gas connection , there is no separate provision for private job employees. House plan for homeless people is already in place. The income limit for this is 3 lakh to 18 lakh rupees annually.

3. In the private job, whose income is less than Rs 20,000 per month, the government will give 30% subsidy to buy Hero Bike.

Reality: No such plan exists.

4. In the private job, whose income is less than 25 thousand rupees per month, the amount of accidental insurance scheme is increased up to 10 lakh rupees.

Reality: Prime Minister’s accident insurance plan is worth 2 lakh rupees. There is no separate provision for private job employees.

5. In the private job, whose income is less than 15 thousand rupees per month, the BPL-card will be made for them.

Reality: This amount of earning cannot come under BPL card. Those, whose annual income is less than 27 thousand, can have a BPL card.

6. If the wives of private job employees want to do business then the government will help with two lakh rupees funding. This amount has to be returned after five years.

Reality: Such a plan is not in existence.

7. In the private job, whose income is less than Rs.15,000 per month, 50% subsidy will be given by the government for fees for their children studying in Multinational School.

Reality: Such a plan is not in existence.

The second cabinet meeting has not yet taken place. Therefore with this research, it is clear that, in the video the claims made by them have not yet been decided by the Narendra Modi Government.

We searched five years plans too. There is no news of such a decision during this time.

Fact Crescendo had found a similar claim and fact checked it. It was found to be fake on 3 June 2019, You can read that article by clicking on this link: FCFactcheckLink.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact checked and confirms that the photograph is being share in the post with a wrong narrative. We categorise the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased photographs and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.