Spread the truth:

A tweet by President Ram Nath Kovind’s handle, with two photos of President unveiling a portrait of Subhash Chandra Bose was called wrong by many prominent people claiming the man in the photo to be of actor Prosenjit Chaterjee from a movie, Gumnaami, in which he played the role of Neta ji Subhash Chandra Bose. Today, Twitter had a blast of false claims by journalists, politicians and prominent people.

Below is the tweet by President’s official handle which drew all this chaos.

President Kovind unveils the portrait of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at Rashtrapati Bhavan to commemorate his 125th birth anniversary celebrations. pic.twitter.com/Y3BnylwA8X — President of India (@rashtrapatibhvn) January 23, 2021

Twitter

Journalist Rajdeep Sardesai deleted his tweet, followed later by a clarification

archive

Barkha Dutt deleted her tweet later.

archive

Swati Chaturvedi also deleted her tweet

archive

TMC MP, Mahua Moitra also delete her tweet

archive

Many other known people tweeted the same claim which were retweeted many times but now are deleted.

Facebook

Verified Page Bollywoodlife posted –

archive

Truth

The portrait unveiled by President of India in Rastrapati Bhavan is indeed of Shubhash Chandra Bose and not of actor Prosenjit Bose as claimed by journalists etc today

We cropped the portrait of Neta Ji from entire image and reverse search it which led us to a black and white photo tweeted by Shubhas Chandra Bose’s GrandNephew last year

Appreciate NDAGovt under the leadership of @narendramodi ji declassified #NetajiFiles, built #NetajiMuseum at #RedFort, renamed #RossIsland as #NetajiIsland. But what is imperative now is to follow #Netajis inclusive ideology to integrate the nation. Jai Hind! pic.twitter.com/3Regc3vu1B — Chandra Kumar Bose (@Chandrakbose) January 11, 2020

He tweeted the original photo today claiming the colored portrait, unveiled today was painted by renowned artist Shri Paresh Maity.

This is the original photograph of #NetajiSubhasChandraBose, based on which renowned artist Shri #PareshMaity has drawn the portrait which was unveiled at Rashtrapati Bhavan on 23 Jan 2021, by Hon’ble President of India-Shri Ram Nath Kovind ji. @rashtrapatibhvn @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/WTOHqtgs3p — Chandra Kumar Bose (@Chandrakbose) January 25, 2021

The director of the movie Gumnaami, in which actor Prosenjit Chaterjee played the role of Neta Ji Subhash Chandra Bose, also cleared the issue today

The following is the picture on the basis of which the painting at Rashtrapati Bhawan was painted by Paresh Maity. For any similarity of Prosenjit's look to this photo, the credit goes to Somnath Kundu. #Gumnaami @prosenjitbumba pic.twitter.com/Lhy5FTzjtt — Srijit Mukherji (@srijitspeaketh) January 25, 2021

You can also see the difference below, while the left black and white photo is of Shubhash Chandra Bose (little touched) the right one is of the actor Prosenjit Chaterjee in the movie Gumnaami

Related