Uttar Pradesh is in the news once again as the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) was cancelled on Sunday due to an alleged paper leak, which set off a political blame game.

Amid the row, a picture of some people sleeping in the open is circulating on social media. The accompanying claim in Hindi translates to, “Imagine spending the whole night in such shivering cold and coming to know the next morning that the exams have been cancelled. Complete failure of BJP government.”

advertisement

Although the claim does not specifically say which exam, the indication is clear.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Several media reports suggest that the picture is not of UPTET aspirants, but unemployed youths who’d come all the way from Rajasthan to meet Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Lucknow on November 27.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

After multiple rounds of reverse-search and keyword search, we came across a tweet posted by the Uttar Pradesh government’s official “fact check” handle. Debunking the viral claim, it said the picture is not of UPTET aspirants.

The tweet, however, did not mention any other detail regarding the picture. One of the users commented that the image is from Lucknow, where students from Rajasthan were protesting against Priyanka Gandhi.

We came across other similar tweets which claimed that unemployed youths from Rajasthan went to meet Priyanka Gandhi in Lucknow and spent the night outside.

A keyword search led us to an article where an image of protesting youths was seen. Though this picture showed them sitting and not sleeping, the surroundings were starkly similar.

A “Dainik Bhaskar” article carried a similar image with the headline, “Unemployed youths from Rajasthan reach Priyanka Gandhi’s house in UP, girls part of dharna”.

A clearer image was found in another article by “Dainik Bhaskar”.

Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia also tweeted the above image, asking chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the Congress’s top leadership to take necessary action.

A further search revealed another news report which carried the viral image as from outside the Congress office in Lucknow.

UP Congress leaders also admitted to such protests but blamed it on BJP. Party spokesperson Ansu Awasthi said, “Because Priyanka ji is raising issues of employment, these plans are being made by BJP and RSS to disturb us. But we are a democratic party, we have noted their concern.”

advertisement

According to sources, police pushed the protesters from the Congress office to a nearby park named Eco Garden. The viral picture was captured there.

Therefore, we can conclude that the image is not of UPTET aspirants but unemployed youth from Rajasthan who’d come to Lucknow to meet Priyanka Gandhi.