The voters of Uttar Pradesh head to the polling booths for the first phase of Assembly elections in a few days. Social media is abuzz with heated campaigns by political parties. A lot of misinformation is also passed over these platforms as the voting day draw closer.

In the latest, a tweet, purportedly by senior journalist Ajit Anjum is circulated on social media where he claims to leave journalism if BJP comes back to power in UP.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the tweet circulated as Ajit Anjum's is fake. The journalist himself told us that he has not made any such announcement on Twitter.

AFWA probe

According to the screenshot in circulation, Ajit Anjum made the tweet on January 31, 2022.

We checked Ajit Anjum's tweets from his official handle (@ajitanjum) n this date but couldn't find it. We also checked the archived version of the tweet in question on the web archiving tool "Wayback Machine". However, none of the Tweets made by Ajit Anjum on January 31 or the adjacent days was available in the archives.

Also, as per the screenshot, Ajit Anjum made the tweet from a verified Twitter handle. However, the official handle of Ajit Anjum -- which has over 1.2 million followers is not verified. Ajit's Twitter followers include several political leaders and journalists.

For further clarity, we further reached out to Ajit Anjum. Speaking to AFWA, the journalist said, "A few days back some social media handles were claiming that I have announced to leave journalism if Yogi Adityanath comes back to power in UP. Now, a fake screenshot of a tweet is in circulation claiming that I will leave my profession if BJP comes back to power in UP. All these are absurd. I have never made any such remarks. Also, my Twitter handle @ajitanjum is not verified. However, the fake screenshot in circulation has a verification tick mark."

On February 5, 2022, Ajit Anjum himself shared the screenshot of the alleged tweet and confirmed he never posted such a remark on the microblogging platform.

On the same day, Ajit also tweeted a video of him speaking about the fake social media posts circulating in his name and the frequent trolls he receives from the IT cells.

advertisement

The video is shared with a caption in Hindi that translates as, "Various types of false rumours are being spread about me in a planned manner. Photoshop creations are also circulated. It shows how much the IT cell dislikes me touring the country and voicing my opinion."

It is hence clear that the screenshot circulated in the name of Ajit Anjum is fake. The journalist never tweeted saying he will leave journalism if BJP comes back to power in UP.

(With inputs from Kamala Kuniyal in New Delhi)