Not only has Priyanka Gandhi's recent entry into politics has made waves across political circles but it has also turned social media into hyperdrive.

A video clip of the newly appointed All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary has been widely shared on Facebook, trying to portray her as a habitual drinker who even makes public appearances in inebriated condition.

The screenshot shows the share count of the video

advertisement

The archived version can be seen here.

India Today Fact Check found that the video is around nine-month-old with a completely false context.

The 15-second-long video, which was posted by Facebook user Vimal Sharma, shows Priyanka looking furious. The video was shared more than 6,200 people at the last count.

Screenshot of the video being shared by different people

In the viral video, Priyanka can be seen losing her cool. She can be heard saying, "Think what are you doing, those who want to push can go back home."

The caption with the video reads, "Shaam hote hi sharab ke nashe me choor ho jane wali se Congress ko umeed ho sakti hai magar desh ko nahi hai, likh kar rakh lo ye Pappu se bhi bada Pappu saabit hogi, Congress ka antim sanskar bhai behen mil kar hi karenge #PriyankaInPolitics"

ENGLISH TRANSLATION: Only the Congress can have expectations from her who is an alcoholic but the country cannot.

When we reverse-searched the video, we found that the incident took place on April 12, 2018, when Rahul Gandhi led a midnight march at India Gate to protest incidents of rape in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao and Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua.

Priyanka, along with her children, also took part in the march.

During the event, Priyanka and her kids got pushed around by the unruly crowd which made her furious. The incident was reported by prominent media houses such as Financial Express in which Priyanka can be seen in the same blue kurta that she is wearing in the viral video.

Priyanka Gandhi's blue kurta in the viral video

We also found the full version of the video where she can be seen struggling to pass through the crowd. News agency ANI tweeted about this, elaborating on the incident in the caption.

WATCH | Midnight candlelight march: Priyanka Gandhi gets furious at unruly crowd

It is clear that the video, showing a visibly angry Priyanka from the last year's candlelight march, is being shared with the wrong context to mislead people.