Riots erupted in the Swedish city of Malmo on August 28 after members of a far-right organisation reportedly set the Quran on fire and stamped on it. A far-right Danish politician, Rasmus Paludan, was to speak at the Quran-burning event on 'Islamisation of Nordic countries', but he was arrested and banned from Sweden for two years.

Malmo went up in smoke, literally, as hundreds of protesters set fire to vehicles and fought pitched battles with police. Amid this, a collage of 16 pictures showing badly injured faces of some women is circulating on Twitter with the claim that this is what the immigrants did to Swedish women during the riots.

advertisement

BJP leader Gaurav Goel posted the collage on Twitter and tweeted, "Tolerance of Sweden has paved a way for them to be killed. Sweden allowed Jihadis to come and now the citizens of Sweden are brutally killed or injured, that is not an accident...It is a choice they have made."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the women's mugshots are not related to the Sweden riots. The pictures seen in the collage are years old and from different countries. These women have been victims of domestic abuse, police violence or other attacks.

The disturbing photo collage is being widely shared on social media linking it to the Sweden riots. Actor Kangana Ranaut had also retweeted one such misleading tweet.

What is happening in Sweden is extremely sad, my heart goes out to all the natives who believed that being secular made them better people, wake up call for Bharat, don’t be ashamed of protecting your civilization, protecting your Dharma. https://t.co/fErxr1o8GB— Kangana Ranaut (@KanganaTeam) August 29, 2020

AFWA investigation

Using Google reverse image search, we found the viral collage was used in a report by The Observers in 2018. The article was about fake images used to spread "racist stereotypes" against migrants.

Describing the picture collage, the article cited a report by Austrian fact-check website Mimikama, which tracked down the original sources of most of the pictures in 2017.

The collage was made using pictures of victims of various attacks from different countries. The Mimikama report details the names, country, incident, year and source for most of the mugshots.

This proves the viral picture collage has been available on the Internet for almost three years and has nothing to do with the recent rioting and arson in Sweden. As per reports, some policemen were injured in the violence. No death was reported till the filing of this story.

This is not the first time Sweden has seen rioting by immigrants. In 2017, riots erupted in a migrant neighbourhood of Stockholm after United States President Donald Trump referred to Sweden while speaking on problems caused by immigration. In 2010, rioters torched a school in a migrant-dominated area in the Swedish capital.