Since the deadly Easter blasts in Sri Lanka on April 21 that killed more than 250 people, social media has seen a flurry of posts, many of which later turned out to be false. Now, a video circulating on social media claims that Muslims have been protesting in London against the crackdown by Sri Lanka following the attacks.

India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false, as the viral video has no relation with the recent attacks. This is a video of a protest that happened in 2013 in London.

advertisement

"Protest in London against action taken by Sri Lankan Government.. Against Tertorist who organised synchronised bomb attacks in the country..! Their brothers just killed 290 Christians in Srilanka..! Is this a joke or something.. Now terrorists are Victims..!!", posted a Twitter user "Major Subrat Mishra SM" on Monday. The post has the two-minute-long viral video attached in which Muslim men with placards against the Sri Lankan government can be seen.

Protest in London against action taken by Sri Lankan Government.. Against Tertorist who organised synchronised bomb attacks in the country..! Their brothers just killed 290 Christians in Srilanka..! Is this a joke or something.. Now terrorists are Victims..!! pic.twitter.com/WGWPPLaoXN MAJOR SUBRAT MISHRA,SM (@SUBRATSMSM) April 29, 2019





According to Mishra's Twitter bio, he is a decorated army veteran. Hundreds have liked and shared his post.

This post can be found on Face book and YouTube as well. "Narendra Modi - Election 2019" posted this on YouTube on April 29. Facebook users "Pushpendra Kulshrestha", "Arvind Shenoi" and many others have posted the same video and message.

By slicing up the video in key frames and using Yandex reverse image search, we found a blog written on April 6, 2013, where still pictures of a similar protest can be seen.

Translating the blog which was originally written in Indonesian language, we came to know that there was a protest by Muslims in April 2013 in London against the Sri Lankan government.

We found a news report published by mainstream news website "Colombo Telegraph" on April 11, 2013. According to this report, Muslims gathered outside the Sri Lankan embassy in London on April 5, 2013, to condemn alleged oppression by the island country.

We found a longer video of this protest on YouTube, published in May 2013, where the same visuals can be seen in the initial two minutes.

Hence, we conclude that the claim is completely wrong as the protest video six years old and has no relation with the blasts in Sri Lanka.