Amid the ongoing tension in Jammu and Kashmir after several civilians were killed by terrorists, a photograph of a woman whose face is being grabbed by another during a fight is being circulated on social media with the claim that this is how Muslims in Kashmir face atrocities at the hands of Indian security forces. Some policemen can also be seen trying to intervene in the brawl, the picture that is now viral on Twitter, shows.

advertisement

The user wrote in the caption "there is genocide in Indian occupied #Kashmir #boycottindia." The picture is being shared with hashtags like #help_Kashmir #save_kashmir #free_kashmir. Archive of the viral tweet can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the viral post to be misleading. The picture was taken in February 2017 during clashes between the student activists of ABVP and AISA at Delhi's Ramjas College.

AFWA investigation

With the help of a reverse search and some keywords, we found the viral photo on Getty Images. According to Getty Images, the photo was taken on February 22, 2017, when violence erupted between the two student bodies at Ramjas College. The picture was clicked by Raj K Raj of Hindustan Times.

The photo was also carried by Hindustan Times in a report and it related to the same incident. The report says that a conference called the “Culture of Protest” was to be held at Ramjas College in which former JNU students Umar Khalid and Shehla Rashid were invited.

The conference was cancelled later following opposition from ABVP. AISA activists opposed the cancellation and protested. The ABVP then alleged that the protestors raised anti-national slogans.

The next day, members of ABVP allegedly attacked Ramjas students when they were taking out a march to protest the disruption of the literary fest. This led to violent clashes between the student groups.

At that time, the viral picture was also used by multiple international media houses such as CNN and Daily Mail.

Hence, we can conclude that the claim with the viral photo is misleading. The picture is more than five years old and from Delhi's Ramjas College, not Kashmir.