Spread the truth:

A video is being circulated of people harshly beating a man. AAP MLA Amantullah Khan has tweeted this video captioning, “नए भारत में नए कीर्तिमान अब कुछ इस तरह बनाए जा रहे हैं, अगर आप में इंसानियत ज़िंदा है तो आपको भी देख कर दुख होगा। हर बार की तरह “टोपी-कुर्ता-दाढ़ी” वाला शख्स हैवानियत का शिकार होता दिखेगा। BJP सरकार भले ही विकास करने में असमर्थ रही हो लेकिन नफ़रत फैलाने में अव्वल साबित हई। दुखद!”

Translation– “In the new India, new records are being made in this way, if humanity is alive in you, then it will be sad to see you too. Like every time a ‘cap-kurta-beard’ man will be appeared to be a victim of the savagery. The BJP government may have been unable to develop but it has proved to be the top in spreading hatred. How unfortunate!

Twitter

नए भारत में नए कीर्तिमान अब कुछ इस तरह बनाए जा रहे हैं, अगर आप में इंसानियत ज़िंदा है तो आपको भी देख कर दुख होगा। हर बार की तरह "टोपी-कुर्ता-दाढ़ी" वाला शख्स हैवानियत का शिकार होता दिखेगा।

BJP सरकार भले ही विकास करने में असमर्थ रही हो लेकिन नफ़रत फैलाने में अव्वल साबित हई।

दुखद! pic.twitter.com/tWZGbqzVcQ — Amanatullah Khan AAP (@KhanAmanatullah) June 20, 2021

archive

Facebook

We also found that the video is been circulated to various Facebook page as well.

Truth

The video is not about the mob ruthlessly beating Muslim man.

The video attached to the tweet is rather about beating a man who purposefully drove a bike for three km by his car which was parked against his house.

Seeing the AAP MLA’s tweet thread, a user had replied with the screenshot of the actual article. It states that the crowd is thrashing a van driver in Amravati for hauling a bike for three kilometres. An article from Maharashtra Times dated June 15, 2021, states that Faizan A Kalam drove the bike parked outside his house. The bike was parked by Mahendra Rao, a rental accomodating in Gurudevnagar. People witnessed this incident. They chased the van and beat the driver.

Hence, the video is of beating a van driver. It is falsely given a communal angle.

Twitter

This incident is of Amravati in maharashtra, guy in pink dress was drunk and hit a bike parked in front of a house with his 4 wheeler and dragged the bike upto 2 KM, there after the reaction of the people. No religious angle in the incident. pic.twitter.com/L0VB39Fc7B — Karan Singh (@KaranSi59456875) June 22, 2021

The incident was also reported by the Lokmat on June 16, 2021.

As Alt News reached out to police inspector Rita Like from Tivsa police station who confirmed that the incident was not religiously motivated. “A van driver had dragged a motorcycle parked on the road for 2.5-3 km. The vehicles in front of the car narrowly escaped a collision. Locals chasing the van managed to stop the driver and beat him up when he was caught. The driver seemed to be in an inebriated condition. The police have registered a complaint against the driver and those who beat him. But there is no communal angle. The van driver was thrashed by an angry mob over the accident,” she explained. (Credits: Alt News)

Related