A screenshot of a newspaper clipping in Hindi is circulating on social media with the claim that after the recent Bijapur attack by Naxalites, Congress leader Raj Babbar called them revolutionaries. A total of 22 CRPF jawans were martyred in the dastardly Naxal ambush in Chhattisgarh on April 3.

Several Facebook users have posted the screenshot of the news item, the headline of which translates to, “Raj Babbar said Naxalites are bringing a revolution”.

advertisement

Some Facebook users posted it with a caption in Hindi saying, “22 security personnel were martyred in a battle with Naxals at Bijapur in Chhattisgarh. But Raj Babbar says Naxals are bringing revolution. Should Raj Babbar get any security after this comment?”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that it is an old statement by Babbar and not given in the context of the Bijapur incident.

The archived versions of the Facebook posts are saved here, here and here.

What AFWA found

Using keyword search, we found several news reports on this controversial statement by Babbar on November 4, 2018.

As per these reports, the Congress Rajya Sabha MP was addressing a press conference in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur. While commenting on Naxal activity in the state, he had said the “revolution” undertaken by them should be resolved through dialogue.

Babbar had further said, “People whose rights have been taken away, who are in misery, who are not being given their right worth, are laying their lives to get back their rights. However, usage of guns by either party will not lead to any solution. A solution will only come out by addressing their problems and having a conversation with them.”

The video of Babbar’s media briefing was tweeted by news agency ANI.

#WATCH Goliyon se faisle hal nahi hote.Unke sawaal ko address karna padega, aur unko darra kar, ya lalach dekar kranti ke jo log nikle huye hain unhe rok nahi sakte hain. Na idhar ki bandook se hal niklega na udhar ki, baatcheet se hal niklega:Raj Babbar in Raipur (3.11) pic.twitter.com/7A2VeA3hzk — ANI (@ANI) November 4, 2018

We could not find any credible news report saying the Congress leader has termed Naxalites “revolutionaries” after the Bijapur attack. Rather, in a tweet, he had condemned the attack and called “Naxalism” an enemy of internal security. He also condoled with the martyrs’ families.

Therefore, it is clear that an old statement of Babbar on Naxals has been linked to the recent attack in Chhattisgarh.