Burqa has been a controversial topic in many countries. Several countries have restrictions on burqa, which has often led to the spread of fake news on social media.

More recently, an image of a burqa-clad woman in handcuffs with police surrounding her has gone viral on social media.

Facebook user Riyaz Shaikh posted the picture along with a caption in Hindi that claims the woman was arrested in Australia for wearing a burqa. He appreciated the woman for showing courage in front of police and asked people to share the post as much as possible.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. One, this photo is not from Australia but Spain. And more importantly, the woman was not arrested for wearing a burqa. A Spanish counter-terror police team arrested her in 2015 for allegedly recruiting women into Islamic State.

The Facebook post by Riyaz Shaikh has been shared by more than 37,000 users at the time of filing this story. Several other Facebook users have also posted the same content.

Using reverse image search, AFWA found that this picture was taken by AFP and used by several media websites such as Daily Mail and PressTV .

According to these news reports, an 18-year-old Moroccan woman was arrested in Gandia city of Spain in 2015 by counter-terror police allegedly for recruiting women to fight for Islamic State in Syria.

The woman, clad in the full-length Islamic robe and veil, was paraded in handcuffs on the streets after being detained by police.

Though burqa is a debatable issue in Australia and Spain, but there is no ban on the clothing in either of the countries.

Thus we can conclude that the woman in the viral picture was not arrested because of wearing a burqa but due to her alleged involvement with terror organisation Islamic State.

Also read: Fact Check: Old video of Modi-Manmohan meet goes viral with misleading claim

Also read: Fact Check: No, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau is not converting to Islam