A black-and-white photo of a man is being passed of on social media as freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. The photo surfaced on a Facebook page, We Support India, which has about 50 lakh followers. The message in the picture reads: "Bhagat Singh ki asli photo. Comment me Jai Hind likhe. (Bhagat Singh's real photo. Write Jai Hind in its comment)"

advertisement

Thousands of people have reacted to this photo and are also paying their tribute. However, some people like Sheetal Chauhan and Rahul Singh have pointed out that the man in this picture is not Bhagat Singh.



India Today Fact Check found that the photo is not of Bhagat Singh. The man in the photo is Nawab Tafazzul Husain Khan, the Nawab of Farrukhabad.



We started our investigation with a simple reverse search of the photo. It directed us to several links on the Internet where this man has been referred to as Nawab Tafazzul Husain Khan.



Our correspondent in Uttar Pradesh's Farrukhabad reached out to Kazim Ali Khan Bangash, the great-grandson of Taffazul Husain Khan. Bangash confirmed to India Today that the man in the photo is his great-grandfather. "Tafazzul Husain Khan was the last Nawab of Farrukhabad, who fought Britishers. He was sentenced to death for helping freedom fighters during the major uprising in India in 1857 but later exiled to Mecca," he told us.



The photo also found place in a scholarly publication, La Trobe Journal, produced by State Library Victoria. An article in the journal titled, 'Images of Empire: Sir Henry Barkly's Photograph album, 1858-1877', included the photo of Nawab Tafazzul Husain Khan. The caption of the photo reads: "The Nawab of Ferrukhabad banished from India for life because of his crimes during the Mutiny, now residing at Mecca."



Author Thomas William Beale in his book 'The Oriental Biographical Dictionary' called Husain Khan "the rebel Nawab of Farrukhabad". The excerpts from the book states, "This man, a British protege, murdered sixty-two Englishmen, women and children, during the insurrection of 1857, under circumstances of the most cold-blooded atrocity." It further reads: "The Nawab surrendered, was tried, found guilty, and sentenced to death... The Nawab elected to be sent to Mecca."

The version of Husain Khan's great-grandson and the information provided in the Australian journal and the book lead to the same conclusion - that the photo is not of Bhagat Singh but Nawab Tafazzul Husain Khan.

Referring to this man as Bhagat Singh is misleading. Freedom fighter and revolutionary leader Bhagat Singh was hanged to death on March 23, 1931 along with Sukhdev Thapar and Shivram Hari Rajguru in Lahore Central Jail.

READ | Fact Check: No, it's not Congress minister forcing cops to eat his leftover food

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Truth about viral video of Gujarat migrants exodus