A picture of a half-shaven sick chicken is going viral on social media with the claim that it was found infected with coronavirus in Bengaluru.

Facebook user Sourav Mondal posted the photo with the caption, Chicken infected from coronavirus found in Bengaluru today. Kindly circulate this message and avoid the consumption of chicken. Spread to your dear ones.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. This picture has been doing the rounds on social media since November last year. Also, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), the animal source of coronavirus has not been identified yet.

advertisement

Till the filing of this story, the post was shared more than 1,100 times. The archived version can be seen here.

To verify the claim along with the image, we ran a reverse search and found that this photo of a sick chicken with blisters on its skin is available on the Internet for the last three months.

We found an article with the viral image published on November 21, 2019, on TAMIL 360 NEWZ. The article explains how broiler chickens are injected with chemicals so that they grow faster, but it also results in side-effects. The article does not mention anything about coronavirus.

We contacted Dr. G Devegowda, president of the Institution of Veterinarians of Poultry Industry, who told us, There is no medical proof till date that coronavirus has any connection with chicken. The viral claim is misinformation.

Also, we did not find any news article to support the claim that coronavirus-infected chicken has been found in Bangalore. Since the coronavirus outbreak is constantly making headlines across the world, it is unlikely for the media to miss out on such a development.

According to WHO, the animal source of 2019-nCoV has not yet been identified. However, it has advised people to be protective while visiting live animal markets and avoid the consumption of raw or under-cooked animal products. Hence, it is clear that the viral picture is old and unrelated to the deadly novel coronavirus.

Also read: Fact Check: Tarek Fatah passes off old video with communal slogans as recent one from Delhi

Also read: Fact Check: Did police publicly kill coronavirus-infected woman in China?