As Delhi gears up for the Assembly elections, a video of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is doing rounds on social media. In the video, Kejriwal can be seen as appealing to people to vote for the Congress. It is being claimed that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is advising Delhiites to vote for the Congress this time.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is not just three years old, but it has also been tampered with. The video was shot by Kejriwal himself during Punjab elections in 2017.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Facebook user 'Annu Rajput' has shared an eight-second video with the caption in Hindi that roughly translates: "Has AAP changed its stance and appealing to vote for the Congress, it is an advice for Delhi people whom to vote for."

The video is viral on Facebook with similar claims.

To verify the claim with the viral video, we broke the video into key frames and ran a reverse search on one of them. We found the full version of the video posted by Kejriwal on his Facebook account back in 2017. We also found that the viral video has been created by tampering with the original video.

Kejriwal went live on Facebook on January 30, 2017, before Punjab elections and said: "It is being reported since past two days that Akali Dal and RSS men are going door-to-door to convince people not to vote for them but vote for the Congress this time."

See the full video here.

The tampered version of this video went viral at that time too. On February 2, 2017, Kejriwal again took to Facebook live and clarified that he had never appealed to people to vote for the Congress. He also said the viral clip was manipulated.

It is a known fact that during the 2019 general elections, the AAP tried to join hands with the Congress for all seven seats in Delhi but the Congress refused. However, for Delhi elections 2020, they are contesting against each other. In fact, the Congress has alleged corruption on the AAP. A detailed report can be read here.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video is not only three years old but also tampered with.