The image is digitally edited to shows filmmaker Satyajit Ray. Original image was taken in 1964 showing actor Sean Connery as James Bond.

An image of filmmaker Satyajit Ray standing with his luxurious sedan Aston martin is widely circulating on social media claiming that Ray’s image was captured in 1953. The caption of the image is titled as “Ray before Bond! 1953.”

We found that the image is digitally edited. Fact Crescendo received a request for verification of this image on our WhatsApp Fact line number- 9049053370.

Facebook Post

This image is widely circulating on Facebook.

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a reverse image search on Google, whose results led us to a stock image website named Getty Images. According to the description of the image, the photo was captured in 1964. The image originally shows actor Sean Connery who played the role of James Bond in Goldfinger. Michael Ochs Archives took the photo.

The caption of the image mentions, “1964: Actor Sean Connery poses as James Bond next to his Aston Martin DB5 in a scene from the United Artists release ‘Goldfinger’ in 1964. (Photo by Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images)”

The image can also be found in The Guardian with the following caption: “Connery with Bond’s Aston Martin DB5 in Gold finger, 1964, also published this image. The credited the image to Donaldson Collection/Getty Image.”

We compared the viral image circulating on social media with the image available of Getty Images. We found that the originally image shows actor Sean Connery who played the role of James Bond in 1964. The image was morphed to show that it was an image of Satyajit Ray.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the viral image on social media to be digitally altered. The viral image on social media does not show filmmaker Satyajit Ray, it shows actor Sean Connery in the film Goldfinger playing the role of James Bond.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)