US President Donald Trump has started briefing the press at the White House regularly since the novel coronavirus outbreak.

A video of the US President, talking to the press, is doing rounds on social media platforms. On March 18, Facebook user Steven Stonebanks posted a 1-minute-46-second video clip where it can be seen that a number of clips of Donald Trump speaking to media were put together.

advertisement

The caption of the video reads, "Today, Donald Trump says 'people are dying who have never died before'??? Here are some more crackers."

Here is the archived version of the post.

Another Facebook user Leslie Chism also claimed the same. The post has been shared around 4,000 times.

Leslie Chism's Facebook post

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti-Fake News Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false as in the video itself the particular quote is missing.

The video is created taking separate speeches from Trump's briefings put together and edited to make one single video. It is a quote that has been on the internet for more than a decade.

We ran a Google search and could not find anything as claimed by the social media users.

Among the several press conferences that the US President has been holding in the past two weeks, Trump talked about the US government's guideline to fight novel coronavirus, temporary border closure with Canada, how the government is arranging test centres in cities, etc,.

Global media has covered them extensively. Those reports can be read here and here.

The Facebook users claimed that Trump had said this on March 18. After thoroughly hearing Trump's press briefing on March 18, we conclude that the US President never said, "People are dying who have never died before."

Here is another detailed report by NPR of what Trump spoke about on that day's briefing.

We found that the quote is on the internet for over a decade attributing it to different people at different times.

So it can be said that the quote was falsely attributed to the US President and the claim on social media is not true.