Russia's invasion of Ukraine entered its second week on Thursday, March 3. Amid this, a video was circulated on social media with the claim that it showed fresh footage of ongoing combat between Russian and Ukrainian forces.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claim along with the video was misleading. The viral clip is about a decade old and from Afghanistan.

advertisement

AFWA probe

Around the 7.45-minute-mark in the 12.26-minute-long video, a black screen appears with the description of the clip. As per this description, the video is from “Operation Creature Pan Kalay” in the Kandahar province of Afghanistan.

At 7.48, we can also see the flag of Afghanistan.

Using this information, we searched on YouTube and found the footage (after the 7.45 mark in the video) uploaded to a YouTube channel called “319MPAD ” in January 2012. According to this channel, the video shows a military operation by the Afghan National Army (ANA).

Also Read: | Fact Check: Video from Syria falsely shared as Russian attack on Ukraine

“Part 1: Operation Pan Kalay - ANA enters Pan Kalay” reads the headline of the video. The channel also uploaded parts 2 and 3 of the Operation Pan Kalay footage. US military personnel can also be seen in these videos.

Operation Pan Kalay was launched by NATO in Kandahar in January 2012 to capture explosives used for homemade bombs by the Taliban.

A comparison of frames from both videos can be seen below. In one of the frames, we can also clearly see the badge of the Afghan army on one of the soldiers’ uniforms.

We performed a reverse search of the keyframes before 7.45 of the video in circulation and found the same footage uploaded on the verified YouTube channel “Gung Ho Vids” in October 2014. The description of the video says that the footage is from a military operation in Afghanistan in December 2011.

Also Read: | Fact Check: No, Kyiv’s Motherland Monument didn’t light up with ‘Russian Warships F**k yourself’

“Combat footage of U.S. Marines, including interviews, as they are inserted by helicopter across the Helmand River into Kajaki Sofla, Afghanistan for Operation Western Storm. Filmed on Dec. 3, 2011,” read the description of the video.

The video was credited to Lance Corporal Jacob Miles Lagoze who was deployed by the US to Afghanistan from 2011 to 2012 as a combat camera in the 1st Battalion, 6th Marine Regiment.

A comparison between the keyframes of both videos can be seen below.

The same footage was shared by Facebook pages and websites as early as January 2012. They all attributed the video to Afghanistan.

It is thus clear that the video in circulation is over a decade old and is from Afghanistan - it has nothing to do with the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Also Read: | Fact Check: No, this video DOES NOT show Indian media faking deaths during the Russia-Ukraine war