Blame game over the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan continues, with most discussions over the country’s sad state of affairs centring on the United States. The Afghan economy is in ruins, inflation is at an all-time high, and according to reports, poverty and unemployment have forced people to even sell their children and organs to escape starvation.

On social media, a set of four pictures showing children carrying bullet shells and mortar rounds is circulating as visuals from the war-torn country. Claiming to be a reflection of young lives in Afghanistan following the US withdrawal, the accompanying post says, “After 20 years’ war, this is what the #US has brought to the children in #Afghanistan.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the pictures to be misleading. All the pictures are from Syria, taken during the ongoing civil war.

AFWA probe

A reverse search on the pictures led us to the website “Middle East Images”. In fact, one of the pictures in the viral tweet was the cover image of an article here, titled “The Shells of War”.

“The Shells of War” is a collection of photographs taken by Ali Haj Suleiman from Syria. It is dedicated exclusively to a scrapyard run by a displaced Syrian man who helps others like him make ends meet by selling shells, mortar rounds, missiles and bullets from conflict zones as scrap metal.

We were able to locate all the four images used in the viral tweet in this album.

Following this clue, we checked the Twitter handle of Ali Haj Suleiman. The war photographer had a pinned tweet on his profile with the screenshot of another tweet carrying the images in question.

“A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman has published @zlj517, photos taken by me in Idlib and claims that ‘this is what the United States brought to the children in Afghanistan’, but in fact, this is what the Syrian regime and Russian forces brought to the children in Idlib,” read the tweet dated January 27.

@zlj517 is the Twitter handle of Chinese foreign ministry official Lijian Zhao. He later deleted the tweet. Ali Haj Suleiman had tweeted the four images on December 21, 2021.

“Shells of War’ one of my stories was awarded a place of honor in the UNICEF Photo Contest 2021. Although this story comes after 3 others but its entry in the competition, getting to the final, and receiving a place of honor is considered a great success in conveying to the world,” the tweet read.

We found a report in “Middle East Images” confirming that Ali Haj Suleiman was awarded an honourable mention by the jury at the 2021 UNICEF Photo of the Year Award. It was for one of the images among the four in circulation now.

We have reached out to Ali Haj Suleiman for further details about the photographs. This article will be updated once their response comes in. But it is clear that the four images of children carrying bullet shells and mortar rounds are not from Afghanistan but Syria.