Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot Abhinandan Varthaman is not only being talked about in India but his heroic feat has also created flutters in Pakistan as well.

Neighbouring countries' social media is abuzz with news related to Abhinandan Varthaman. Amid all this there is a photo of uniform being displayed as memorabilia in the war museum of Pakistan. The photo is doing rounds on the internet. The netizens are claiming the uniform is that of IAF's Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the uniform in the viral picture is not Abhinandan's but it is the coverall (suit) of an Israeli pilot.

Abhinandan, who was in Pakistan's custody for around 60 hours, was released at the Attari-Wagah border on March 1. While returning home, Abhinandan walked across the Zero Line on the border donning a blue-grey suit.

Many social media users believed the claim to be true since Abhinandan returned from Pakistan in a civil dress and not in his uniform.

Screenshots of people sharing post on social media

This post has been shared on Twitter as well.









We reverse-searched the photo.

The result of reverse search of the viral photo

When we reverse-searched the photo it led us to Sheikh Saleem Ahmad who had tweeted this very picture on February 23, 2019, much before Abhinandan was taken into custody by Pakistani authorities.

The tweet states, "Pakistan always help Arabs in war against apartheid Israel. Here is a snap of Air CDRE Abdus Sattar Alvi who shot down Israeli Mirage during air combat in April, 1974 in #Syria-#Israel war. Our hearts beat with our Arab nations including Palestinians."

The tweet can be seen here.

A further search led us to articles stating that Air Commodore Abdus Sattar Alvi, the man in the viral picture, had presented an Israeli pilot's coverall as a war trophy to the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) in 2018. News portal Dawn reported an article related to the incident on January 21, 2018.

Online magazine fighterjetsworld.com also reported about the case on July 9, 2018, and shared close-up pictures of the uniform kept at the PAF Museum in Karachi.

This is the same uniform that is shown in the viral picture.