More than 1 crore people have viewed this video on social media, and thousands have shared and commented on this. The video of a commercial airliner purportedly doing daredevil aerial stunts at a very low altitude has gone viral, globally.

A Facebook page -- Times News International -- with more than 2 lakh followers, posted this video on September 13. It claimed that a Dragon Air plane hit by a typhoon in Shenzhen, managed to land safely. India Today Fact Check team found that this video is fake and the description misleading. The aeroplane shown to be caught in typhoon and spinning and swinging dangerously is in fact an animated visual done for fun.

advertisement

Besides the Facebook page, this video also surfaced in YouTube and viewed by more than 25,000 people.

Many people who believed this video to be true, expressed their anguish on Twitter.

Hoping all my friends in Hong Kong are safe.... And all who have been effected by the terrifying typhoon



This pilot needs a medal or something. True hero saving everyone pic.twitter.com/PY6uFcq1s5 James Jordan (@The_JamesJordan) September 16, 2018



The 44-second-long video shared globally has two parts. The first part of the video in black and white shows a civil airlines rolling dangerously midair at a very low altitude just before landing. The second part of the video is coloured and shows people being evacuated on the tarmac after an emergency landing.

Searching for the visuals of "Dragon air hit by typhoon" on YouTube we came across the YouTube channel MeniThings which posted this video on June 14, 2017. MeniThings is a multimedia production house known for its videos with visual effects and computer-generated images (CGIs).

Not only is the video fake, but the following description given in the video is also confusing. The description along with the viral video says: "Dragon Air hit by typhoon in China Shenzhen. But managed to land safely. Beijing Capital Airlines confirmed the accident, in total, there were 166 passengers and 9 crew members on board. After the landing at Shenzhen Airport an emergency evacuation was initiated, five of the passengers were slightly injured (most likely during the emergency evacuation."

Eyebrows were raised because the caption says the aircraft affected belongs to Dragon air while the confirmation of the incident was issued by Beijing Capital Airlines, a totally different airline.

Dragon Air is the former name of a Hong Kong-based international airline now called Cathay Dragon. Whereas Beijing Capital Airlines is a Chinese low-cost airline. It is based in Beijing and is a subsidiary of Hainan Airlines.

On August 28, a Beijing Capital Airlines Airbus A320 (B-6952) suffered severe damage on nose gear and the left engine during a hard landing at Macau Airport. But this accident had nothing to do with typhoon.

In the first half of the viral video taken from MeniThings, the logo of Air Canada Jetz Boeing 737 is visible on the tail of the aircraft doing the stunt. But during the emergency landing the aircraft changes to Airbus A 320 of Beijing Capital Airlines.