As fire continues to ravage the vast Amazon rainforest in Brazil, a set of four heart-wrenching pictures of animals caught in the flames is being shared on social media. It is being claimed that these pictures are from the Amazon rainforest.

On August 24, Facebook user Neena Reddy R. posted the pictures and claimed, "Heartbreaking scene captured at Amazon Rainforest, these divine souls are suffering because of human species carelessness. We have lost glaciers, global warming increased, deforestation, air pollution etc etc. We need one Noah to built a boat and only animals to be allowed soon.#amazon#saveanimals"

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the images are digital artwork.

The post was shared almost 600 times till the time of filing this story. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

What AFWA found

Photo 1 & 3

An image of a jaguar and a bird engulfed in flames are actually a work of graphics. We found "@Julianmajin" written on one of the photographs. When we searched this name on the Internet, we found an Instagram account with the same name.

Julian Majin is a Colombian graphic designer whose Instagram account is full of such digital artwork. We found both the images () along with one more picture in his account uploaded on August 22.

We approached Majin but didn't get any response till the time of filing this story. This story will be updated once we get his statement.

Photo 2

On reverse searching the image of a bear holding a stick, we found the original photograph in the stock of Unsplash. There are no such flames in the original photo clicked by the photographer SI Janko Ferlic. The viral photo is photoshopped to show fire around the bear.

Photo 4

This image of a tree in flames with monkeys and birds on it is also a tampered one. On reverse search, we found the original image in Adobe Stock. There is no animal or bird in the image.

We also found the image in the stock of Unsplash registered under the name of Benjamin Lizardo with the caption: "Here in Puerto Rico from February to April/May is the fire season and burning of plants and trees in the wilderness."

Amazon is burning

Parts of the Amazon rainforest are on fire for the last two weeks. NASA has captured images of plumes from space on August 11 and 13. Many prominent international and national media houses are keeping track of the incident.

Conclusion

Therefore, it is clear that the viral images are digital artwork and has nothing to do with the fire in Amazon rainforest.