On 20th November, several news channels, based on a report by news agency PTI, reported that the Indian Army had carried out ‘pinpoint strikes’ to destroy terror launch pads in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). According to the news report, the Indian security forces had carried out pin-point strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). This claim was later refuted by the Indian Army. Amidst this, a video went viral on social media claiming to show the exclusive footage of the pinpoint strike carried out by India on PoK.

The caption of the post reads “Big Breaking News :- One more #AirStrike by @IAF_MCC in the PoK, Many #terrorists and their training camps demolished by #indianairforce Many terrorists also killed in this air strike.”

Big Breaking News :- One more #AirStrike by @IAF_MCC in the Pok, Many #terrorists and their training camps demolished by #indianairforce Many terrorists also killed in this air strike pic.twitter.com/zpryqiZh0F — Deepak Chaudhary (@CHAUDHARY1030) November 19, 2020

Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by conducting a Google Reverse image search on one of the key frames by InVid-We Verify tool that led us to the same video uploaded by the verified YouTube channel of Double Doppler on 9th July 2015. According to the description of this video, it is from a video game called Arma 2. The description adds as “Gunner perspective in the US Army Apache during battle, using FLIR camera with M230 sound mod. Like real life.”

Next, we compared the video uploaded by the YouTube channel with the viral video on social media, which clearly proves that the viral video does not show any exclusive footage of the pinpoint attack by India. Rather the video is originally a part of a video game named Arma 2. Below you can view the comparison image of the viral video and the screengrab of the video game.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the viral video to be False. An old and unrelated clip is being circulated on social media with the claim that it shows a purported IAF strike in PoK. The viral video originally shows a scene from a video game called Arma 2.