Is the Nightingale of Bollywood, Lata Mangeshkar, finally retiring? Has she decided to stop recording songs? A post by a Facebook user "Tshering Wangdi Lepcha" claims that after turning 90, the singer has decided to record her last song, and henceforth she will not record anything.

The user posted a Marathi song "Aata Visavyache Kshana" sung by Lata Mangeskar, saying the song was her last recording. The meaning of the song is "it is time to rest now". People on social media believed it to be her last song and flooded social media with emotional messages.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) this claim to be incorrect. The song is a little more than a five years old. The nonagenarian singer never said that this was her last recording or that she had decided to retire. Rather, in an interview she confirmed that she wanted to sing till her last breath.

This Facebook post on Lata Mangeshkar's last recording has gone viral like wild fire. The post was uploaded by "Tshering Wangdi Lepcha" on December 16, 2018.

Till now more than one lakh forty thousand people have shared this post. Tshering Wangdi Lepcha is a politician from Sikkim. An archived version of his post can be found here.

Last December, in an interview to "The Indian Express", Lata Mangeshkar denied rumours that she had decided to stop recording songs. "I got to know that one of my Marathi songs 'Ata visavyachi Kshan' was being seen as my swansong. But I sang that song five years ago! In 2013, music director Salil Kulkarni came to me with the song," Lata Mangeshkar said.

The legendary singer assured her followers that she had no plans to retire and said she was surprised to find that "mischievous minds" had turned the Marathi song into her "retirement song!"

Writer, poet Yatindra Mishra, the author of award winning book, "Lata- Sur Gatha" - a biography in Hindi on Lata Mangeshkar published in 2016 - told us that the singer was once asked about retirement and asked what she would choose between "moksh" (salvation) and "sangeet" (music). Lata Mangeskar answered "sangeet". According to Mishra, "Lataji always says she cannot even think about quit singing, I do not think she has ever remotely thought about retiring."

Last year, Lata Mangeshkar told "The Indian Express", "I just can't connect with today's film songs. So I have bowed out. As far as non-film songs are concerned, I will continue to sing them no matter what."

We tried to contact the singer through her secretary to enquire about her latest album. As soon as we receive any response from her team, we will update the story.