Can the sitting chief minister of any state ever publicly claim that people will be forced to vote for the ruling party as voters will be so burdened by their plights that they will have no time to hold the ruling party accountable for not providing employment, water or roads? It's quite unlikely.

But in poll-bound Rajasthan this is exactly what is being claimed by the Congress party. And the bizarre statement is being attributed to Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje.

advertisement

Not only is a doctored video from an event of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Jaipur is being shared on social media, even Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala has claimed the same.

At an Aaj Tak event on Thursday in Jaipur, Surjewala claimed that Raje had asked BJP workers to confuse common people to such an extent, that no one will have time to have questions such as why roads were not constructed, why there is no water, why there are no jobs, why people are being beaten up, or why farmers are suffering. He said the idea is to confuse people to get their votes.

Surjewala also shared the video of his statements on Twitter in which he is claiming the same.

Surjewala was, in fact, referring to the video which has surfaced online in which Raje can be heard saying, "Vote humme milenge kyuki logon ko samey nahi milega humse poochne ka ki humko naukri kyu nahi mili? Humko paani kyu nahi mila? Hamari sadak kyo nahi bani? Kyuki vo apne dukh me itne ghuthe hue honge. [We will be successful at securing votes as the public will not have the time to ask us why did we not get jobs or water, why were our roads were not constructed, because public will be consumed with their own problems.]"

India Today Fact Check found that Surjewala's claim is misleading. The video which is being shared on social media has been edited to seem out of context which conveys something else. When we looked up the video, we found its original version of it in which Raje can be heard saying:

"Aapko maalum hoga BJP ne gareebi hataane ka waakai mein kaam kiya. Congress party gareebi hataane ka nara 50 saal se dete aa rahi hai. Aaj tak unhone koi gareebi mitaane ka kaam nahi kiya hai. Aur jab inse poocho toh yeh kehte hai, gareebi to mitaana nahi hai.

advertisement

Jitni gareebi hum [Congress] karenge utna hi fayeda humme milega, utne hi vote humme milenge kyuki logo ko samay nahi milega humse [from Congress] poochne ka ki humko naukri kyu nahi mili? Humko paani kyu nahi mila? Hamari sadak kyu nahi bani? Kyuki vo apne dukh me itne ghuthe hue honge."

"[As you know, the Congress has been raising the slogan 'eradicate poverty' since the past 50 years. But they have done nothing to eradicate poverty. When you ask them, they say they don't want to eradicate poverty. (They believe) the more we spread poverty, the more we will benefit because the people won't have the time to ask why they are not getting jobs, water and roads. They will be consumed by their own plights.]

The full video was uploaded on BJP's YouTube channel on November 21. Its from the event "Yuva ri baat, Amit Shah re saath". The event took place in Jaipur on the same day.

Hence, what Surjewala has claimed on the basis of a doctored video, is completely misleading.

(This article has been published as part of the Ekta News Coalition.)