On 4th July, a Facebook user named AiMiM Rayachoty youth posted a video. The title of the video was “Supporters of Tabrez Ansari took part in a procession in Agra. If you wish you live in India, then say Allah Hu Akbar. Dalit Muslims carried out the procession. A video of men wielding sticks and swords, where they can be heard raising slogans against PM Narendra Modi, Bajrang Dal and Shiv Sena is doing the rounds on social media. In the video it is being claimed that this video is from Agra where Muslims carried out a procession in support of Tabrez Ansari, who was a victim of mob lynching in Jharkhand. The people shown in the video are holding swords and sticks in their hands and chanting ‘Shiv Sena haye haye’ and ‘Bajrang Dal haye haye’. This video is being widely spread on different social media platforms. This video received 1931 reactions and it was viewed 266000 this the time facts were checked.

Facebook Post Archive video

Looking at this video carefully, we could not see even a single person raising slogan. On this point, we got suspicious about the authenticity of the video and we tried to know the truth.

Starting our investigation, we broke this video into multiple key frames and used Google reverse search image. As a result, we found a youTube link and a video with duration 2minutes and 37 seconds. This video was uploaded on YouTube on 4th November 2014. The title of the video was “Gopalganj Muharram 2014”. The audio in this video is not audible. We could only listen to the sound of drums.

We found that this video is available on the internet before Tabrej Ansari died. The audio in this video has been tampered and slogans are laid over .You can see the comparison of both the videos below.



Apart from this, we searched for the slogans heard in the viral video. We found a YouTube video when we searched for keywords “if you want to live in india then say Allah Hu Akbar”. This video was uploaded on YouTube on 17th December 2017. The title of this video is “if you want to live in India then chant Allah Hu Akbar”. This video was made in Udaipur and the audio of this video is similar to the audio of the aforementioned viral video. Solgans liike Shiv Sena haye haye, Bajrang Dal haye haye, Hindustan me rehena hoga.. can he heard in this video. This video was reported by India Today.

Apart from this we found the original video of this procession, where we could hear the slogans given in the viral video. This video was published on 29th December 2017.

Actually, the protest took place against the accused Shambu Lal Regar at Chetak Circle in Udaipur for killing of a Muslim boy in the name of alleged love jihad. This news was published by Hindustan Times on 7th December 2017. The audio of the slogans chanted during the protest held on 7th December 2017 have been linked to the viral video.

Hindustan Times Archive Link Scroll Archive Link

According to a report of India TV, this incident happened in Udaipur on 13th December 2017 where slogans were raised against Bajrang Dal, Shivsena and PM Narendra Modi

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5F3Q2Jh7wTI

There was protest in Jharkhand against the death of Tabrez Ansari on 1st July 2019. During the protests, some people pelted stones which resulted into stampede. Police laathi charged and scattered the crowd. A well established media organization like AmarUjala covered this news

AmarUjala Archive Link

Conclusion: After investigating we found the above video to be false. This video is not from a protest in Agra. This video belongs to Muharram Procession held in Gopalganj Bihar in 2014. A separate audio from a protest in 2017 has been added to this video. The audio in this video is from a different procession that took in Udaipur in 2017.