The Election Commission is putting in considerable efforts to curb black money this poll season. In this context, photos of a car containing a large cache of cash have emerged on social media recently. The claim is that as much as Rs 20,000 crore has been seized from the car of BJP MLA from Maharashtra Sudhir Gadgil.

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Both the images are old and not connected to each other.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Among others, a Facebook page 'Congress Samarthak' posted two photos with a text in Hindi that says: New currency notes worth Rs 20,000 crore seized from the car of BJP MLA Sudhir Gadgil. Spread this news like wildfire because Indian media doesn’t have the guts to show you this. (Bhajpa ke vidhayak Sudhir Gadgil ki car se 20 hazar crore ki nai currency pakdi gai hai. Ye khabar aag ki tarah faila do kyunki apne bharat ki media mein ye dikhane ki aukaat nahi) Mischievously, the text on the photo is written in present tense to make users believe the incident to be a recent one.

Facebook users Suneel Kumar Sakrar and Hari Mandia Comrade also posted the photos with the same claim which got shared more than one lakh times.

What AFWA found:

Photo 1:

In this photo, five men in civil dress and one policeman can be seen, whereas some plastic bags are visible in the car behind them. On reverse search, we found that the photo is from November 2016, when an election squad from Maharashtra’s Osmanabad district seized Rs 6 crore cash.

The cash allegedly belonged to an urban cooperative bank in Sangli. The bank is headed by Ganesh Gadgil, the brother of Sudhir Gadgil, according to reports. The incident took place a few days after demonetisation was announced on November 8, 2016.

According to officials, the seized cash included 60,000 notes of Rs 100; 88,000 note of Rs 500; and 10,000 notes of Rs 1,000. Many prominent media houses had covered the incident.

Photo 2:

Bundles of currency notes of Rs 200, Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 denominations can be seen in cardboard boxes. We found that the image was taken in November 2017, around a year after the Sangli cash seizure incident.

Income tax officials had raided the house of National Stock Exchange (NSE) broker Sanjay Gupta in Delhi and seized Rs 11 crore cash during the searches related to OPG Group in the co-location case.

advertisement

Multiple publications, including The Times of India, had carried this piece.

Thus, it is clear that the viral post is fake as both the pictures are from different times and have no relation with each other.