Since the coronavirus outbreak, many home remedies and tests are viral on social media. One such 'advisory', attributed to the Stanford Hospital Board, claims that if you can hold your breath for more than 10 seconds, you are not infected by coronavirus.

"Take a deep breath and hold your breath for more than 10 seconds. If you complete it successfully without coughing, without discomfort stiffness or tightness, etc., it proves there is no Fibrosis in the lungs, basically indicates no infection.In critical time, please self-check every morning in an environment with clean air," says part of the claim posted by Facebook page "Relationship Essentials Radio".

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral claim is misleading. The fact is that most young Covid-19 patients will be able to hold their breaths for much longer than 10 seconds, while on the other hand, many elderly without the virus won’t be able to do it.

The Stanford University has also tweeted to clarify that the viral advisory was not issued by them.

Misinformation about COVID-19 symptoms and treatment falsely attributed to Stanford is circulating on social media and in email forwards. It is not from Stanford. Official information from Stanford is available at https://t.co/LlNXeyuejP. Stanford University (@Stanford) March 13, 2020

Faheem Younus, the chief quality officer and chief of infectious diseases, University of Maryland UCH, has also tweeted that this piece of viral information is not correct.

Myth #3: If you can hold your breath for ten seconds without discomfort, you don’t have COVID.



Wrong: Most young patients with Coronavirus will be able to hold their breaths for much longer than 10 seconds. And many elderly without the virus won’t be able to do it. Faheem Younus, MD (@FaheemYounus) March 17, 2020

PIB has also debunked the claim.

Claim: If you can hold your breath for 10 sec without discomfort, you don’t have #Coronavirus#PIBFactCheck : Most young patients with #Coronavirus will be able to hold their breaths for more the 10 sec and many elderly won't be able to do the same.

Conclusion: #FakeNews pic.twitter.com/GXCX2Rujwb PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) March 22, 2020

Therefore, it is clear that just by holding your breath for 10 seconds, you cannot confirm if you are infected by coronavirus or not.

Also read: Fact Check: Fake WHO's warning of lockdown in India goes viral

ALSO WATCH| We need to practice social distancing: Health ministry