A few days back, Pakistan offered material support to India to tide over the Covid-19 crisis. On April 24, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan even expressed solidarity with India against the “global challenge confronting humanity”.

Soon after, a video of a train carrying tankers started going viral on social media with the claim that it shows oxygen tankers from Pakistan making their way to India. Several social media users posted the video with the caption, “Oxygen tanker left Pakistan for India after Imran Khan’s announcement.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The video is actually of Oxygen Express operated by Indian Railways. The train seen in the video was carrying seven empty tankers from Navi Mumbai to fill them up at Visakhapatnam.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of keywords, we found that the video was posted by The Hindustan Times on April 20, 2021.

According to the video description, the Oxygen Express left for Vizag with seven empty tankers from Kalamboli Goods Yard in Navi Mumbai. The empty tankers were to be filled with medical oxygen in Vizag and returned to Maharashtra.

The same video was tweeted by Railways Minister Piyush Goyal on April 19, saying that seven empty tankers departed from Kalamboli to Vizag to load liquid medical oxygen.

News reports by “The Financial Express” and “Firstpost” also said that the tankers were to be filled with oxygen at the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and brought back to Maharashtra, which is facing a shortage of oxygen to treat critical Covid patients.

According to these reports, the ramp was developed overnight by Central Railway Zone, Mumbai division, at Kalamboli to facilitate loading and unloading of the tankers.

With India facing an acute shortage of medical oxygen and other Covid-related supplies, several countries such as Australia, China, Germany, France, UK, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan have stepped up to provide relief facilities to India.

In a tweet, Pakistan PM Imran Khan wished “speedy recovery to all those suffering from the pandemic in our neighbourhood & the world”. Several politicians, celebrities and sportspersons from the neighbouring country also took to Twitter with hashtags such as #PakistanstandswithIndia.

I want to express our solidarity with the people of India as they battle a dangerous wave of COVID-19. Our prayers for a speedy recovery go to all those suffering from the pandemic in our neighbourhood & the world. We must fight this global challenge confronting humanity together — Imran Khan (@ImranKhanPTI) April 24, 2021

But the viral video is not of oxygen tankers from Pakistan coming to India. It was taken a few days back when the Indian Railways’ Oxygen Express was carrying empty tankers to get them filled with liquid oxygen at Visakhapatnam.

(Inputs by Sonali Khatta in New Delhi)