Victory fell into the side of AAP in the Punjab Elections 2022. As in every election, we can hear many controversial news. The same is the case with the Punjab Elections 2022. Many people suspect that there is some sort of relationship between AAP and SFJ. Moreover, former AAP member Kumar Vishwas also alleged Delhi CM Kejriwal to be a separatist. In response to these allegations, Kejriwal called himself the world’s sweetest terrorist”.

#WATCH | AAP Convener Arvind Kejriwal responds to allegations of his former party colleague & poet Kumar Vishwas. "This is comedy. If their allegations are to be believed, I am a big terrorist. In this case, what were security agencies doing in last 10 years," he says. pic.twitter.com/G2Nzws2VCe — ANI (@ANI) February 18, 2022

Meanwhile, a letter by the name of SFJ chief and a pro-Khalistani Gurpatwant Pannun is getting circulated on the internet. Sharing the letter users are claiming that, AAP won the Punjab elections because of SFJ’s support. Further, the letter also claimed that AAP got the votes of pre-Khalistanis. The letter is to Bhagwant Mann from Pannun. Moreover, AAP won the Punjab elections by deceptively bagging the votes of pro-Khalistan Sikhs in Punjab who support SFJ’s secessionist Referendum for the independence of Punjab from India.

खालिस्तान वोट, खालिस्तान फंडिंग !! SFJ का दावा है कि खालिस्तानी समर्थन के कारण AAP ने पंजाब में चुनाव जीता। अगर सच है, तो पंजाब का भविष्य …? pic.twitter.com/GRzbolGnEc — Radhika Khera (Modi Ka Parivar) (@Radhika_Khera) March 11, 2022

Similarly, many social media users shared this letter.

Fact Check

On doing keyword search we found no such letter from Gurpatwant Pannun.The SFJ chief Pannun, himself stated that the letter is fake. Further, he clearly said, “The letter circulated in the name of SFJ is fake. It is circulated by Bhagwant Mann and AAP. SFJ does not believe in the Indian Constitution or any political party. SFJ’s only goal is separating Punjab from India, and for that, we will do referendum voting soon.”

Moreover, another such fake letter was circulated on social on 17th February.

Therefore, we can see that there is a series of letters by the name of SFJ related to AAP. But, they are not authentic.

Also Read: Did American actor Leonardo DiCaprio donates $10 million to Ukraine?

Conclusion

Hence, it is clear that Pannun sent no such letter to Bhagwant Mann.