Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, Ahmed Patel, passed away at 71 on November 25, 2020 after battling Covid-19. Patel, the Congress party's main trouble-shooter and key strategist was laid to rest on November 26. Hundreds of people were part of the veteran Congress leader’s funeral ceremony. Besides former party president Rahul Gandhi, several other Congress leaders too were in attendance.

advertisement

Now, a 44-second video of a mass Islamic funeral procession is viral on social media with the claim that these are visuals from the last rites of Ahmed Patel.

The caption to one such video reads, "Last rites of Ahmed Patel @ Bharuch Gujarat. May his soul rest in peace. It's a sad for me".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false. The video is from the funeral procession of Jameel Shaikh, a Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader. Shaikh was shot dead in Thane on November 23, 2020.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA PROBE

While checking for reports of Ahmed Patel's funeral procession, we found that the coffin seen in the viral video is different from that of Patel's.

Patel was laid to rest on November 26 at his native Piraman village at Ankleshwar in Gujarat's Bharuch district.

However, the video which claims to be from Patel's funeral procession, was found in a news report uploaded on November 25 by a verified YouTube channel Aapka Prahar Times.

The caption to the video in Hindi translates to, "Thousands of people joined MNS leader Jameel Shaikh 's funeral".

Taking a cue from this, we further searched and found a similar video taken from a different angle uploaded by Mumbai Mirror and TV9 on November 25 as the funeral procession of the MNS leader.

According to the report by Mumbai Mirror, Shaikh, MNS leader and president of a civic ward in Thane city was shot dead by two bike-borne assailants in the Rabodi area on November 23. Flouting all social distancing norms mandatory due to the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, thousands of people attended the funeral procession of Shaikh on November 25, the report added.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video is from the November 25 funeral procession of an MNS leader who was shot dead in Maharashtra's Thane. Congress veteran Ahmed Patel was laid to rest on November 26.