Karnataka is at the centre of a political storm as the row over hijabs in educational institutions refuses to die down. A month after six women were barred from entering classes for wearing the hijab at a Women’s Government PU College in Udupi, protests and counter-protests have now spread across several college campuses. More than 100 male students went for classes wearing saffron shawls on February 2. On February 5, 200 boys in Bhandarkar's College, Kundapur, reportedly came to college wearing saffron shawls raising the slogan “Jai Shri Ram”. Meanwhile, the state government has asked institutions to follow existing uniform rules until the Karnataka High Court takes a call.

advertisement

On Twitter, debates on the issue have raged on as well, a lot of them under the hashtag #KarnatakaHijabRow. Among these debates and opinions, however, were also images of women donning tricolour headscarves.

"If you have a dare to wear our Indian flag instead #HijabIsOurPride #HijabisOurRight #KarnatakaHijabRow," one such tweet read.

Archived links of similar tweets can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim to be misleading. The photos in circulation with the claim that they are from Karnataka were actually taken at a Mumbai college during the Independence Day celebrations in 2018 and 2019.

AFWA Probe

The image in some of these tweets showed women marching, wearing tricolour hijab.

A reverse search on Google took us to a report by the Financial Express published on August 15, 2018. The photo story was a collection of the best images of Independence Day celebrations from different parts of the country.

The photo by the Press Trust of India (PTI) featured ninth in the story along with the caption, "Students of Anjuman Islam College march during the 72nd Independence Day parade, in Mumbai."

Clearly, the image of college students in Mumbai was shared as a scene from Karnataka.

We also checked the other image that is shared with similar claims. While the tweet claims the photo to be from Karnataka, a reverse search took us to an article by The Hindu published on December 30, 2019. It was a listicle of the most liked photos of the year on the daily’s Instagram page. The image in question was listed ninth in it along with the title, "Students of the Anjuman-I-Islam college in Mumbai don tricolour headscarves before flag hoisting during Independence Day celebrations at the college."

We also located the photo on The Hindu's Instagram page. Uploaded on August 15, 2019, with the same caption, the photo was taken by the late senior photojournalist Vivek Bendre who died in 2021.

Following the clue that the origin of both the images is the same, we ran a keyword search on Google for the Independence Day celebrations at Anjuman-I-Islam College. This returned several similar photos from 2019. One such image was also available on the website of the British-American visual media company Getty Images . It was captioned, “Students of Anjuman I Islam College take selfie to celebrate 73rd Independence Day, on August 15, 2019 in Mumbai, India.”

A similar search on YouTube took us to a short video uploaded on August 15, 2020. We found students donning similar headscarves in this brief recap of the college's Independence Day celebration the previous year.

Hence, it is clear that the images of women in tricolour headscarves shared with the claim that they are from Karnataka, were actually taken during Independence Day celebrations at Mumbai's Anjuman-I-Islam college. They have no connection with the ongoing hijab protests in the southern state.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal in New Delhi)