When the entire nation has thrown its weight behind flood-hit Kerala, parody-makers and fake-news factories are out churning insensitive and incorrect stories about the deluge.

Some trolls are even rolling out jokes on the back of the disaster.

INSTANCE ONE

"Kerala flood: Man refuses to accept a saffron life jacket, dies as a result," reads a headline on a fake story produced by Fault News, which describes itself as a satire news portal.

advertisement

The bogus piece has been shared by parody accounts of several mainstream media outlets.

"In a shocking yet unfortunate incident, a man has drowned and died after he allegedly refused to wear a life jacket offered to him by the rescue team. It was revealed that the only reason that the man did not accept the life jacket was because it was saffron in color. A color which is often associated with rising Hindutva in India," the fake Fault News article read. "Soon after the incident, Keralas CM Comrade Pinarayi immediately ordered life jacket manufacturers across the country to produce green coloured life jackets instead."

INSTANCE TWO

Recently, the Indian Army debunked a fake video, where an impostor in military fatigues is seen spreading misinformation about relief operations and slamming the Kerala chief minister.

But that hasn't deterred vested interests from using social media platforms to mislead the masses with bogus stories, most of them influenced by competing political ideologies.

INSTANCE THREE

Recently, a bizarre audio message, along with a text in English by a Facebook user identified as "BJP worker" named Suresh Kochattil, created controversy.

In his post, Kochattil discouraged donors from helping the Kerala flood victims, alleging they were from "well-to-do families".

Kochattil discouraging donors from helping the Kerala flood victims, alleging they were from "well-to-do families.

Even after facing flak for his post, Kochattil remained unapologetic.

INSTANCE FOUR

According to a report by The Khaleej Times, Rahul C Palayattu, a Kerala man, was fired from his job in Oman for making "insensitive" comments about flood victims on social media. He apologized later though.

Meantime, the state chief minister has issued a warning over fake news, saying anyone found circulating misinformation would be acted against.

Follow our complete coverage of the Kerala floods here.

WATCH | Coast Guard airlifts patients from Aluva