An image of scores of people sleeping, crammed on the floor, has gone viral on Facebook with the claim that these are not "Tablighis" but "poor Hindus" who are stranded in India due to the coronavirus lockdown, and both the Modi government and media are indifferent towards their plight.

The text superimposed on the image reads, "These Helpless People are not Tablighis, They are Poor Hindus Who are Stranded due to Lockdown .Has any TV Chanel discussed This." The Facebook post was shared along with the caption, "Our Media is busy in taking dictation from Modi!"

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The image is more than four months old. This is an immigration centre in Malaysia, where illegal immigrants, mostly from Bangladesh, were waiting to return home.

The April 10 Facebook post was shared over 3,600 times till the filing of this story. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we found that a couple of Bengali news websites dedicated to non-resident Bangladeshis had published this image along with a related story last year.

Websites such as "Jagonews24.com" published articles on December 25, 2019, regarding illegal immigrants in Malaysia who are waiting to return home. This was after the Malaysian government had opened a small window last year with a fixed deadline for the illegal immigrant workers to return to their own countries.

The article in Bangla with the viral image had reported about the plight of illegal Bangladeshi workers in Malaysia who were waiting eagerly at the immigration centre to return home.

A Bangla Facebook page named "Amra Probashi Malaysian" (We are non-resident Malaysians) run by non-resident Bangladeshis in Malaysia, had posted the same image on November 29, 2019. The Facebook post also talks about the plight of Bangladeshi immigrant workers in Malaysia.

There are reports about problems faced by migrant workers in different parts of India during the Covid-19 lockdown. But this particular image is from last year and it has no relation to the lockdown. The people in the viral image are not Indians, but illegal Bangladeshi immigrant workers in Malaysia.