Shortly after Russia's declaration of war on Ukraine on February 24, United States President Joe Biden vowed "support and assistance" for Ukraine in a call with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Biden also announced tough new sanctions on Russia.

Amid this, a video of a demonstration started circulating on social media with the claim that it showed people in the US protesting in front of the White House in support of Ukraine.

advertisement

The caption to the video read, "Outside the White House, people protested in support of Ukraine, they say that what Russia is doing is not right."

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim along with the video was misleading. This video is from a patriotic rally held in Ukraine's Kramatorsk on February 23, 2022.

AFWA probe

Though the building seen in the background of the viral video resembles the White House, a closer look confirmed that the building was not the official residence of the American President.

We performed a reverse search of the keyframes of the video with relevant keywords and found similar videos and images in front of the same building carried by multiple media reports in Ukrainian and Russian languages.

According to these reports, the video showed a gathering at the central square in Kramatorsk, a southeastern Ukrainian city in the Donetsk Oblast region controlled by Moscow-backed separatists. The gathering was in support of the Ukrainian government.

We also found the viral video shared by multiple media outlets in Ukraine on February 23.

Other videos and images of the same event were also shared on Twitter by several journalists on the same date.

Kramatorskin kulttuuripalatsin edustalla on alkamassa patrioottinen tilaisuus, jonka teemana on ”Ukraina on yhtenäinen”.



Sanoisin jopa koskettavaksi tahdon osoitukseksi valtavan sodan uhan alla. pic.twitter.com/bQOhf84ngM — Mikko Marttinen (@MikkoMarttinen2) February 23, 2022

A Google Street View of the building seen in the viral video, the Palace of Culture and Technology in Kramatorsk's Myru Square where the demonstration was held, can be seen below.

A comparison between the viral video and an image of the Palace of Culture and Technology in Kramatorsk can be seen below.

It is thus clear that the video in question is from a pro-Ukraine demonstration in Ukraine's Kramatorsk and not a protest in front of the White House in Washington DC.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena in Lucknow)