A video of Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Geelani calling out security personnel to open the door and set him free has gone viral on social media.

This comes at a time the Valley is under heavy security cover and all hardline separatist leaders under house arrest. They were taken into custody before the Union government on Monday moved the notification to revoke special status for Jammu and Kashmir.

advertisement

The 45-second-long video clip shows Geelani's men trying to open a door seemingly locked from outside. Geelani is seen talking to security personnel posted outside through a small opening on the door, asking them to open it as he ensured them that he would not fly away.

Facebook page "Yogi Adityanath ki Sena" posted the video on Wednesday with a caption in Hindi that says, "See the condition of this traitor Geelani, how he is being restless. Thank you Modi ji."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the post to be misleading. The video is at least a year old and not of Geelani's recent house arrest. The video went viral last year after the J&K government announced to free him from house arrest along with some other separatist leaders.

Pakistani journalist Irshad Bhatti tweeted the video along with a few lines in Urdu on August 4, 2019.





A literal translation of the Urdu lines mean, "Open the door... We'll go somewhere else ... open the door... The funeral procession of your democracy is coming out. Open the door... Syed Ali Gilani talks with Indian troops."

This post was shared by several Pakistani media on Facebook.

Using Invid tool to slice up the viral video in key frames and through reverse image search, we came across a YouTube video of 'Greater Kashmir', an English media house from Srinagar. The viral video was uploaded by 'Greater Kashmir' on April 4, 2018, with the caption, "Open the door, I won't fly away: Geelani to police after they bolt door from outside". News related to this video was also published on the 'Greater Kashmir' website on the same day. According to this news report, a video of Geelani went viral in April 2018 in which "he is seen asking policemen to open the gate of his residence padlocked from outside to prevent his march to Shopian".

We found another media report by "News 18", published a few days before the video went viral.

The report said Geelani, along with two other separatist leaders, were set free from eight years of house arrest.

Therefore, the recent claim made on the viral video is misleading. Intenet and mobile services have been curbed in the valley for the time being. This video of Geelani is at least one year old.