With the Gujarat assembly polls scheduled for later this year, the Aam Aadmi Party has already started its campaign in the state. Amid this, an image of the Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has gone viral where he can be seen having alcohol and meat with Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann.

In that viral image, three plates of food that looked like red meat were seen placed in front of the two leaders. There were also two glasses of golden liquid (presumably alcohol). A small bottle of country liquor was seen in front of Mann.

advertisement

Kejriwal could be seen eating, Mann was seen holding a glass, looking at the third person present in the photograph. Many who shared the photo claimed, “The muffler gang was caught red-handed while enjoying a drink.”

here, here and here. Archived versions of the similar post can be seenand

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the viral image was digitally altered. The original one was taken a few months ago in Punjab. Meat and alcohol were digitally added to the photo later.

AFWA Probe

We ran a reverse search of the photo and it took us to a Times of India report published on November 22, 2021, which carried the same image as the viral one. In this photo, however, there was no sign of either of the glasses of alcohol or of the country liquor bottle. Nor was the meat present in this photo.

The report mentioned that the AAP chief was invited by an auto-rickshaw driver in his place for dinner. This was in Ludhiana where Kejriwal was campaigning ahead of the Punjab assembly elections.

A video shared by TOI Chandigarh also revealed conversations between Kejriwal with the other members of the driver’s family.

With the help of an advanced keyword search on Twitter, we found the original and high-resolution image on Aam Aadmi Party’s official handle.

Thus, it became clear that alcohol or meat in the viral image was digitally added to the photo later. The claim and the image, therefore, are false.

(With Inputs from Sanjana Saxena, Lucknow)