A picture of a girl with injuries in her mouth is going viral on social media with the claim that Brahmins in Uttar Pradesh's Bundelkhand region cut off the tongue of a Class 8 girl and offered it as a sacrifice to Lord Shiva to prevent coronavirus infections in their village.

Twitter user "Migrant Kamran" posted the picture and wrote, "There is limit of hypocrisy & superstition. In order to save the village from corona in Bundelkhand, UP, a 8th class girl's tongue was cut off by bharhmis and offer as sacrifice and climbed into Shivji's temple. But neither mainstream media nor celebrities will outrage on this."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the picture to be misleading. This was a case of superstition that took place in UP's Banda district. The 16-year-old girl seen in the picture had herself bit off her tongue and offered it a sacrifice to Lord Shiva to save her village from coronavirus.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. The post is also viral on Facebook.

AFWA investigation

Using related keywords, we found some news reports regarding the incident. A report by News 18 says that influenced by superstition, a 16-year-old girl in Banda's Bhadwal village cut off her tongue and offered it as a sacrifice in a Shiva temple to save the village from coronavirus.

The incident took place on May 20 and the girl is out of danger now. The girl and her family told India Today that she had cut off her tongue herself and offered it to Lord Shiva as a vow. As per the girl's father, his daughter is religious and had been worshipping in the Shiva temple every day for the last four years.

We also reached out to Banda ASP Lal Bharat Kumar Pal regarding the matter. He said the girl cut off her tongue herself and the claim that Brahmins did it is false.

A similar incident was also reported in April when a 24-year-old migrant in Gujarat chopped off his tongue to appease a goddess to stop the spread of coronavirus.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the minor girl had chopped off her tongue herself as a sacrifice to Lord Shiva so that her village is safe from coronavirus. The act was not committed by others.