A picture collage is viral on social media for showing two different streets — one surrounded with trees and another without — of a city that recorded different temperatures on the same day.

Multiple social media users have posted this photo where the street with no trees has recorded temperature ranging between 36°C and 50°C whereas, the temperature of the street surrounded with trees in the second photo ranges between 18°C and 26°C.

advertisement

https://www.facebook.com/ plugins/post.php?href=https% 3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com% 2Fwcco4climate%2Fposts% 2F372205607570585&show_text= true&width=500" width="500" height="671" style="border:none;overflow: hidden" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; picture-in-picture; web-share">

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that these photos are not from the same city. While the first photo is from Twin Falls, Idaho in the United States, the second photo is from Budapest, Hungary.

Archived versions of posts with the same collage and similar claim can be found here, here, and here.

AFWA PROBE

First Photo:

While investigating the location of the first photo, we zoomed in on the name of the store that can be spotted on the left side. It reads: ‘Magic Valley Auto Parts’.

Taking a cue from this we tried to find the location of this store. A simple keyword search revealed that this store is located in Twin Falls — a city located in southern Idaho in the US.

Based on this, we did another keyword search on Google Image that led us to an article about the three most notorious neighbourhoods in Twin Falls and it carries the same photo. The article was published on March 21, 2017.

Second Photo

While investigating the source of the second photo we took a screenshot of the street from the collage and carried a reverse image search.

At first most results showed us the collage used in the Facebook page, however, we found a clear version of this photo on a Dutch environment website.

We conducted another reverse search with the clear image and found this photo on a hotel website - House Octogon. The photo is posted in the photo gallery section of the website under ‘Hotel’s Surrounding’.

House Octogon is located on the E¶tv¶s Street in a posh Oktogon locality of Hungarian capital, Budapest.

Hence, we can conclude that the two photos used in this collage are not of the same city.

The first photo is from Twin Falls, Idaho in the US and the second photo is from Budapest, Hungary.