Social media users claim that a viral video showing Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s wife in a hospital bed urging people to stay home to avoid ending up seriously ill with COVID-19. A woman patient in the hospital bed says “If anyone is thinking of taking any chances, just take a look at me,” we can also see her arm linked to an intravenous line. Throughout the video, she describes her experience in the intensive care unit after contracting COVID-19, and explains the toll that the virus has taken on her body. It is claimed that the women in the video is Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s wife Sophie Grégoire Trudeau.

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by using InVid Tool and running a Google reverse image search and found a Facebook Post by a user named Nicole Poppy Keatley who claimed that the lady in the video is her sister Tara Jane Langston. She wrote “My sister is in her 30’s & normal health she contracted CV-19 and has been in intensive care for a while now.”

Facebook Post

Fact Crescendo contacted Nicole Poppy Keatley who confirmed us that this is her sister Tara Jane Langston who is infected with Coronavirus.Next we ran a keyword search on Google and found a news report published by The Guardian on 20th March 2020. According to the report, the lady in the video named Tara Jane Langston was hospitalised with coronavirus. Richard Langston said his 39-year-old wife was a fit and healthy mother of two before she contracted the virus and was hospitalised in intensive care. After being diagnosed with Covid-19 on Sunday, Tara Jane sent a video to a Whatsapp group with her colleagues. Her sister, Nicole Poppy Keatley, said: “One of the people she works with shared it. Never asked her or told her it went viral while she was in her hospital bed and didn’t know till the next day.”

Archive Link

Next, we searched for Sophie Trudeau on Google and found that the lady in the video is not Sophie Trudeau. She is Tara Jane Langston from United Kingdom who is infected with Coronavirus. You can see a facial comparison of both below.

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above mentioned post to be False. The woman in the video is not Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s wife, Sophie Trudeau in a hospital bed urging people to stay home to avoid ending up being seriously ill with COVID-19.