A poem attributed to screenwriter Salim Khan floods social feeds in India whenever a big, explosive story breaks on national air.

"Aaj Kalam Ka Kaagaz Se Main Danga Karne Valla Hun (I am going to turn the pen against the paper)," reads its first verse. In the nut, the composition unleashes a no-holds-barred assault on the media.

The poem also sets the names of some of Bollywood's top stars -- Salman Khan, Amir Khan and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan -- in rhyme.

advertisement

But then there was a problem. This viral poem appeared nowhere near the works of an icon like Salim Khan.

India Today's Viral Test team then decided to investigate.

Nothing could be better than seeking the truth right out of the horse's mouth. The Viral Test team reached out to Salim Khan himself.

A poem attributed to screenwriter Salim Khan floods social feeds

The suave writer, father of superstar Salman Khan, sounded hurt.

This is how he summed up "Aaj Kalam Ka Kaagaz Se Main Danga Karne Valla Hun": an affront to poetry.

"I have already reported the matter (to authorities). I don't know who's doing (writing and spreading) it. I don't understand why," Khan, 82, told India Today's Viral Test reporter. "I can never write such a despicable poem."

But the writer of the Hindi film industry's epochal Salim-Javed fame is obviously upset why his name has been linked to what he called a frivolous piece.

A poem attributed to screenwriter Salim Khan floods social feeds

"It's a work of someone utterly foolish. That person has got only one poem in hand. But it's not a poem either. It's an affront to poetry," Khan sighed.

The truth is out, unadulterated!

So if next time you see "Aaj Kalam Ka Kaagaz Se Main Danga Karne Valla Hun" on your FB feed, just tap the upper right corner, choose the "give feedback" option and hit "false news."

(With inputs from Khushdeep Sehgal and Balkrishna)

Also read: Salman Khan takes Jacqueline Fernandez on a bike ride to Leh. See pics

Also read: Salman Khan moves SC over his controversial remark on Valmiki community