A video is becoming massively viral on social media sites. In the video some people are bringing a golden chariot, pulled from the sea, towards Shore. A social media user Shivam shared the video and gave the caption, “A golden chariot found in the ocean: Due to Cyclone Asani, sea waves brought a ‘golden chariot’ along with them on a coast in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. The structure of this chariot is like a monastery. Apparently, this chariot has flown from Thailand or Myanmar and reached the coast of Andhra. Video: ABP news”

https://twitter.com/Aaaru_Prem/status/1524259528698925056

Similarly, a Facebook user Anand Srivastava wrote, “A chariot of gold has been found in the sea. Due to Cyclone Asani, sea waves have brought a ‘chariot of gold’ to a coast in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. The structure of this chariot is like a monastery. Perhaps this chariot has flown from Thailand or Myanmar and reached the coast of Andhra.”

And, Virag Pandey also posted the video with the caption,” A golden chariot like a temple appeared in the sea, people cheered, where did the mysterious chariot come from, the officers involved in the investigation ..Watch amazing video of Andhra Pradesh.”

Fact Check :

After searching the internet, we found that many media houses reported on this video of chariot is of gold. And, social media users have shared the same video used in the reports. News24 wrote in the video’s caption on May 11, 2022 , ” ‘ Availed ‘ gold chariot cost in ‘ Billions ‘! .” Similarly, the video thumbnail of Dainik Jagran’s YouTube channel reads , “Golden chariot found flowing in the sea ! ” .

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3-PwXrW2Ssg

Further, on our analysis, we found a tweet of ANI that, “#WATCH | Andhra Pradesh: A mysterious gold-coloured chariot washed ashore at Sunnapalli Sea Harbour in Srikakulam y’day, as the sea remained turbulent due to #CycloneAsani SI Naupada says, “It might’ve come from another country. We’ve informed Intelligence & higher officials.”

#WATCH | Andhra Pradesh: A mysterious gold-coloured chariot washed ashore at Sunnapalli Sea Harbour in Srikakulam y'day, as the sea remained turbulent due to #CycloneAsani SI Naupada says, "It might've come from another country. We've informed Intelligence & higher officials." pic.twitter.com/XunW5cNy6O — ANI (@ANI) May 11, 2022

On the other hand, Suman TV Telugu’s Verified YouTube channel on May 11, 2022 uploaded a News Bulletin report in which the Police Inspector of Srikakulam gave a statement that it is not a chariot or structure made of gold but a gold plated (gold-colored) the structure.

Also Read: Another Deceptive Tweet by CJ Werleman To Defame Hindus. Know The Full Story.

Conclusion :

Hence, the claim that waves drove off a Chariot of gold Sunnapally in District Srikakulam Of Andhra is deceptive. The stucture is not made up of gold. Rather, it is made up of wood and steel. And, due to Cyclone Asani, this structure drifted from Myanmar or Thailand and came in the coastal region of Andhra Pradesh.

Claim: A chariot of gold ‘ appeared ‘ in the sea, costing ‘ in billions ‘ !

Claimed by: social media users

Fact Check: misleading