After the Coronavirus outbreak in India, the country has come together to fight against the virus. Countries have been put into lockdown, schools closed, events canceled, factories shuttered, millions told to work from home and emergency funds released.



Amidst this we came across a viral message circulating on social media claiming that BBMP (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike) has requested people not to come out of their houses after 10 pm tonight till 5am tomorrow as it will be spraying medicine in the air in order to kill COVID-19.



The message reads as “Hello, Kindly request you not to come out of your house after 10 pm tonight till tomorrow 5 am…. As BBMP will be spraying medicine in the air in order to kill the COVID-19!! Share this information to all your friends, relatives and family members who are residing in Bangalore. Thank you! From BBMP.”

Facebook Post | Facebook | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation with a simple keyword search on Google which led us to the tweet published by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s Mayor, M Goutham Kumar on 18th March 2020. He wrote “There is no such directive from BBMP. Don’t fall prey to rumours. Call 104 for any help. #COVID19India.”

There is no such directive from BBMP. Don't fall prey to rumours. Call 104 for any help.



Help us to help you. #COVID2019india https://t.co/J7sZllErVK — Rakesh Singh IAS (@BBMPAdmn) March 18, 2020

Archive Link

We also found a clarification tweet by PIB Fact Check which clearly states that “No medicines are being sprayed in the air to prevent corona virus. Stay away from rumors on #CoronavirusOutbreak and always share accurate information.”

Archive Link

The Commissioner of BBMP, Mr B.H Anil Kumar has also issued a clarification from his official Twitter account. He tweeted saying “Dear Citizens, don’t fall prey to rumours on Whatsapp & other Social Media platforms. #BBMP has no plans to spray any medicine for #COVID19. The best medicine is to stay away from rumours!”

Dear Citizens, don’t fall prey to rumours on Whatsapp & other Social Media platforms. #BBMP has no plans to spray any medicine for #COVID19. The best medicine is to stay away from rumours!



Here is an accompanying advisory for accessing Parks & Gardens#Bengaluru #COVID2019india pic.twitter.com/xy30jh75wI — Tushar Giri Nath IAS (@BBMPCOMM) March 18, 2020

Archive Link

Conclusion- Fact Crescendo found the above viral post to be False. The BBMP Commissioner, the Mayor and PIB Fact Check India have clarified that the viral message is just a rumor and the BBMP has no such plans to spray any medicine for COVID-19.