A photograph of Congress president Rahul Gandhi with a woman, claimed to be a porn star, is doing the rounds on social media. The viral image was posted by a Facebook user, Atma Ram Thapaliya on December 5, 2018 with the caption "Janeudhari Brahmin".

The viral post being shared by many on Facebook.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

advertisement

India Today Fact Check found this to be an old image with a totally false claim. The woman in the picture with Rahul Gandhi is Spanish actress Nathalia Ramos.

A readout marked on the viral photo says, "Pornstar Nathalia Ramos America ke sabse mehenge hotel me pappu ke sath! Shehzade ne jo bank ki line me 4000 rupay nikale the aaj kharch hue! (Porn star Nathalia Ramos with Pappu in the most expensive hotel of America! The prince spent Rs 4,000 today which he withdrew by standing in a bank queue)." This post has been already shared more than 950 times till the time this article was filed.

When we reverse-searched the image, we found that it was a two-year-old picture. It was uploaded on September 14, 2017 by Nathalia on her Facebook and other social media accounts.

Her caption read, "Last night with the eloquent and insightful Rahul Gandhi. I feel so blessed to have the opportunity to meet and listen to so many brilliant thinkers from all parts and perspectives of the world. It is only with an open mind and open heart that we can really make the world a better place. Thank you Berggruen Institute for opening mine. #IdeasMatter." The actress also thanked the Berggruen Institute for inviting her to the event on September 13, 2017.

We looked for news related to the event on the Internet with the keywords 'Rahul Gandhi at Berggruen institute' and found an article published in HuffPost written by Berggruen Institute president Nicolas Berggruen.

We also found a video of the same event.

It was one of the events Rahul participated during his two-week US visit that started on September 11, 2017. The photo with actress Nathalia was clicked at that event.

We found that Nathalia Norah Ramos Cohen is a well-known TV actress in the US. She played the lead character of Nina Martin on Nickelodeon TV series 'House of Anubis' in 2011. She also played the role of Yasmin in the film 'Bratz' released in the US in 2007. Nathalia is Spanish by birth and holds a US citizenship. Several prominent international websites had published various stories on Nathalia as a TV and film actress but none of them had ever called her a "porn star".

advertisement

Earlier in 2017, this viral photo had created a buzz on social media with some claiming her to be the girlfriend of Rahul Gandhi. Several websites carried this story.

India Today, therefore, established that this is an old image resurfaced with a false claim.