Earlier this month, hundreds of people took to the streets of Kathmandu to demand that Nepal be declared a Hindu state. Now, if a viral claim circulating on social media is to be believed, the Supreme Court of Nepal has declared the use of loudspeakers in mosques a criminal offence.

On such claim in Hindi translates to, "Nepal will no longer have loudspeakers at mosques! The Supreme Court of Nepal has categorised it as a crime!"

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. While the Supreme Court of Nepal, in a temporary order, had asked mosques to maintain a limit on the volume of 'azaan', but till the evening of December 23, it neither specified the volume limit nor banned the use of loudspeakers at mosques.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Searching the Internet, we could not find any credible news report saying that the Supreme Court of Nepal has banned loudspeakers in mosques. The official website of Nepal's Supreme Court also has no details regarding an order criminalising the use of loudspeakers.

AFWA then reached out to Nepal Supreme Court spokesperson Bhadrakali Pokharel, who confirmed that the viral claim is false.

"The claim that Nepal Supreme Court has criminalised the use of loudspeakers at mosques is false. There are petitions demanding action against loudspeakers. However, the apex court has not banned them yet," Pokharel said.

We also spoke to Samim Miya Ansari, president of Nepal's Muslim Commission.

"A temporary order from the Supreme Court issued in November had asked mosques in Nepal to maintain a limit on the volume of azaan. However, the order had no mention of what the limit is. Nepal has not criminalised the use of loudspeakers at mosques," Ansari said.

The interim order of the Nepal Supreme Court dated November 29 can be seen here.

Bishnu Rijal, deputy chief of Nepal's department of foreign affairs and a central committee member of the ruling Nepal Communist Party, also confirmed to AFWA that the viral claim is false and the use of loudspeakers is not yet criminalised in Nepal.

In fact, according to some media reports, on December 12, Nepal's culture minister Yogesh Bhattarai had said mosques are a symbol of religious tolerance and goodwill in the country.

Hence, it is clear that though the Supreme Court of Nepal in a temporary order has asked mosques to maintain a limit on the volume of loudspeakers, but till the filing of this story, it has not criminalised loudspeakers in the country's mosques