As the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh continue, a video of Akhilesh Yadav circulated made the rounds on social media with the claim the Samajwadi Party chief insulted Gautama Buddha by refusing to accept an idol offered by his party worker.

The claim was shared by the verified Twitter account of Bharatiya Janata Party leaders such as Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and Lucknow MLC Awanish Kumar Singh. BJP spokesperson Prashant Patel Umrao also retweeted one of the posts.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here. Similar claims were also shared on Facebook.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the video was clipped. In the original and longer version of the video, Yadav was seen accepting the Buddha idol from party cadres.

AFWA probe

Since the video in question seemed to be from the stage of an SP rally, we went through the recent videos of election rallies organised by the party on its official YouTube channel.

This led us to a one-hour-long video from a party conference uploaded on the channel on February 22, 2022. According to the description provided, it was a conference of SP cadets held by Yadav on February 22 at Sirathu in the Kaushambi district of Uttar Pradesh.

At around 10 minutes 15 seconds into the video, we can see the clip that is now in circulation where Yadav allegedly refused the idol. However, a few seconds before this part, around 10 minutes into the longer version of the video, the same party worker could be seen handing over the idol to Yadav. In this part, the party workers could also be seen posing with Yadav and the idol.

After this, when the party cadre tried to keep the idol on the table in front of Akhilesh, he gestured to the man to take the idol backstage. This part lasted for just a fraction of seconds and was taken out of context and circulated with misleading claims.

The date of polling in the Sirathu assembly constituency is on Sunday, February 27, 2022. Sirathu is the Assembly constituency of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya.

It is hence clear that the video in circulation is clipped from a longer version video where Yadav could be seen receiving the Buddha idol of his party workers.

AFWA has been fact-checking several claims surrounding the Uttar Pradesh elections. A Twitter thread to those stories can be seen here.

READ | Here's how much Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav is worth as per his poll affidavit

ALSO READ | Is Akhilesh Yadav going to London the day after UP polls counting?