As elections are underway in Bihar, a picture of RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav wearing a suit and talking to another man is being shared on social media with the claim that he was conferred the ‘Youngest Politician’ award in London.

The claim in Hindi translates to, “Enough with 9th fail taunts. Tejashwi Yadav was conferred the ‘Youngest Politician’ award in London at an age when your father used to sell tea.”

advertisement

Text in Hindi superimposed on the picture translates to, “Someone was begging at the age of 30 even after producing fake certificates. Someone was making a mark for himself in London at the age of 30 even as a 9th fail.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the picture to be false. This 2016 image is of Tejashwi interacting with members of the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) in London. He has not received any ‘Youngest Politician’ award in London.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we found an uncropped version of the viral image shared by Tejashwi himself in 2016 on his verified Twitter handle. The caption of the image reads, “Attending a knowledge sharing session with ICE members in London”.

Attending a knowledge sharing session with ICE members in London pic.twitter.com/2onU6Ad3Lg — Tejashwi Yadav (@yadavtejashwi) August 11, 2016

On his official Facebook page, Tejashwi, who was then deputy chief minister of Bihar, had also shared the transcript of his speech at ICE where he spoke about efforts in improving the transportation infrastructure of Bihar.

We also found news reports from 2016 on Tejashwi’s London visit.

According to reports, Tejashwi was on a trip to England from August 8-15, 2016. During his visit to London on August 10, he addressed members of ICE in London and participated in a ‘knowledge transfer’ session where he presented his vision for Bihar.

However, we couldn’t find any credible source reporting about Tejashwi receiving the ‘Youngest Politician’ award in London.

We also checked the website of ICE and found that it does not offer any award for young political leaders.

Therefore, it is clear that Tejashwi was not conferred with any ‘Youngest Politician’ award in London. The picture in circulation is from a 2016 event that Tejashwi addressed in London as deputy CM of Bihar.

(Inputs by Dheeshma Puzhakkal in New Delhi)