Social media is witnessing hectic activity as several Muslim countries face off with French President Emmanuel Macron over his remarks on radical Islam after a teacher's beheading in Paris.

Amid this, a video of a handcuffed woman being slammed on the ground face-first is being widely circulated with the claim that French police tried to rip off a Muslim woman's burqa and assaulted her when she resisted.

advertisement

Several Facebook users posted the video with the caption, "French police arrest young Muslim girl and by force this Nazi police forcefully trying to take her scarf off from young lady's head, after that

so horrible western democracy."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video has no connection with France. The incident took place in Calgary, Canada, in 2017, after the woman was arrested for violating a court-ordered curfew. The police officer is presently under trial.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here, here and here. Many users have posted the same content on Facebook as can be seen here.

Not a French cop

Using InVID and reverse image search, we found the incident has been widely reported in Canadian media recently, along with a longer version of the viral video.

As per news reports, the video was released by a court on October 26. However, the incident took place almost three years back on December 13, 2017.

The video shows policeman Alex Dunn escorting the woman named Dalia Kafi into the arrest processing unit to have her picture taken. As Dunn attempts to remove her headscarf, she tries to stop him. Eventually, Dunn is seen throwing the handcuffed woman face-first to the ground.

As per media reports, Dunn was charged in 2019 and is presently on trial over the assault. He, however, has not been released from the force and is serving in an administrative role. Kafi was arrested for allegedly violating a court-ordered curfew.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the viral video has no connection to France or the ongoing controversy over Macron's comments against Islamic fundamentalism. The viral video is three years old and from Canada.