A disturbing picture has been floating on WhatsApp which shows the bodies of five children in a pond, with the claim that they were killed allegedly for the purpose of organ trading.

Attached with the picture is an audio clip (listen here) which warns people in a dramatic voice, claiming that these children were kidnapped from different places and dumped after their organs were removed.

advertisement

It also says that the bodies were recovered by the Tamil Nadu Police from a container. The audio ends with an appeal to share the clip with a maximum number of users so that other children remain safe. The message was sent to us by one of our readers, Dr Rituparna.



In the audio clip, a man can be heard saying: "Tamil Nadu Police ko ek container se bacchon ki lashen mili. In bacchon ke jism ke andar ka hissa nikala gaya hai jaise kidney, lever . Tamil Nadu Police ne bataya in sare bacchon ko alag alag desho se kidnap karke laaya gaya hai . Note apne ghar ke bacchon ko sambhalo, unka khayal rakho, apne saare group me ye message send karo. Iss photo ko itna felao taki k***a pakda jana chaiye, agar jisne yeh nahi failaya vo apni maa ka sapoot nahi. Apne phone me chahe kitne bhi group ho 1,2,3,4 ya 25 ye saare group me bhejo, haramkhor pakda jaana chaiye."



The India Today Fact Check team found that the claim is misleading. The claim being made in the audio clip has nothing to do with the image. The photograph is from a place called Barwani in Madhya Pradesh, where a father allegedly killed his five sons by pushing them into a pond.

In the audio, the man is talking about "a container" in which the bodies of children were found. But just by looking at the image, one can say that there is no container in the image, rather it's a small pond.

When we reverse searched the image, we found several news articles related to the image. According to these articles, in October this year, Bhatar Singh - a resident of Chikhli village of Madhya Pradesh's Barwani district - confessed that he killed all his five sons by pushing them into the pond.

According to the news reports in several vernacular dailies, Singh was arrested soon after the crime. He told the police that he had two wives and five children. There used to be frequent fights in the familyand as a result, both his wives left the house. In a fit of rage, Singh killed all the five children. We contacted our local correspondent who also confirmed the sequence of events.

We could not find any such crime reported from Tamil Nadu as being claimed in the viral message. However, we discovered that this is not the first time when such an audio clip was used to mislead people. According to a report in website 99mag.com, an audio clip with a similar message but a different image was being circulated for rumour-mongering. The image was misleading as it was from Syria where 400 children were gassed to death in Ghouta chemical attack.

Read | Fact Check: No, Rahul Gandhi didn’t say he will make Sun rise from the West