How would you react if a "birthday boy" dies during the celebration of his birthday party? A video with a similar claim has spread like wildfire on social media.

The video shows a boy being beaten by his friends. A cake was also seen in the video. It is being claimed that the boy who is seen being beaten up in the video is the birthday boy and in the name of birthday bumps, he was thrashed by his friends so badly that he suffered injuries and died.

advertisement

'Birthday bumps' are a kind of birthday wishes in which the person celebrating his/her birthday is held by their arms and legs and are given kicks.

Many people including Virender Sehwag, news channel TV9 Telugu shared this video. It has been claimed that the boy passed away.

The video has been shared in thousands and netizens have started reacting on boy’s death.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found in the investigation that the death claim is wrong. India Today spoke directly to the boy and he is absolutely fine.

On Virender Sehwag’s tweet, a Twitter user Raghuraj Singh commented that this is fake news.

Raghuraj wrote that the boy, beaten up in the video, is the student of his college and he is absolutely fine. After this, Virender Sehwag deleted his tweet.

In order to know the truth of this video, we started searching for the same Raghuraj, who commented on Sehwag’s tweet.

From the Facebook profile of Raghuraj, we came to know that he studies in a college located in the capital of Kyrgyzstan - Bishkek. We tried to contact him but he didn’t reply to our messages.

On Raghuraj's Facebook profile, we found a group photo, in which Raghuraj, with his college mates, was present. One of them was a person named Deepak Aanjna. We reached out to Deepak Aanjna and talked to him.

Deepak Aanjna confirmed that the boy who was being beaten up in the video is his college mate but the news of his death is merely a rumour. With the help of Deepak, we spoke with the boy in the video.

He told us that this incident happened in December 2018 when he was celebrating his birthday and his friends gave him birthday bumps.

The boy is in stress since the video went viral. The college authority is also investigating this matter. On his request to not make his identity public, India Today is not disclosing the name of the boy and his college.

The boy is himself telling the people on social media that the news of his death is false.

There is no doubt that such type of celebrations could be very dangerous to any person.