Polling in the first phase of Bihar Assembly election concluded on Wednesday (October 28) amid tight security and Covid-19 guidelines in place. Over 53 per cent of voters exercised their franchise locking in the fate of 1,066 candidates across 71 Assembly constituencies.

While campaigning for the second phase of Bihar election is gathering steam, a video showing a large crowd chanting anti-BJP slogans is viral on social media. It is being said that the video is from the election campaign in Bihar where people are chasing out the right-wing group. The crowd in the video can be seen blocking a road with black flags while the police can be seen trying to control the mob.

advertisement

The caption in the Tamil Language to one such video translates as, “Bihar people chasing out the right-wing groups”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false. The video is not from Bihar but from Haryana where farmers obstructed BJP’s pro-farm bill tractor rally.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

A close look at the viral video shows “Haryana Police” written in Hindi on a white-coloured police jeep seen in the video.

Taking a cue from this, we did a reverse image search of the frames from the video with appropriate keywords and found that the video is from a tractor rally organised by the BJP in Haryana in support of the farm laws.

We found a similar video shot from a different angle uploaded by The Tribune on its YouTube channel.

The caption to the video uploaded on October 14 reads, “Farmers block BJP’s rally in Ambala, show black flags”

The description of the video reads, “A tractor rally by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini and Ambala BJP chief Rajesh Batoura, faced a massive protest from farmers in Naraingarh against the three controversial farm laws. The BJP commenced the rally with 150 tractors from Saini Dharmashala in Naraingarh.”

We also found an image from the same rally carried by The Times of India in an article published on October 19.

According to the report, the Ambala police also registered a case against 314 farmers for rioting and blocking the national highway.

We also found multiple media reports on BJP’s recent tractor rallies in Haryana.

According to the reports, BJP in October conducted tractor rallies in Haryana to spread awareness among farmers about the benefits of the recently enacted farm laws. In several rallies, farmers showed black flags as a sign of protest against the farm laws.

We also found the same video in question shared by multiple social media handles as an incident from Haryana.

The three farm bills - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, were passed in both the houses of the Parliament in September, despite strong protest from farmers and opposition parties.