Several pictures of a burnt idol of Goddess Kali are circulating on social media with the claim that hooligans from the Muslim community were behind the act in West Bengal's Murshidabad district.

BJP MP Arjun Singh tweeted the pictures and wrote, "The jihadi nature of Didi's politics is now hell bent on destroying Hindu religion and culture. See how one religious group has attacked and destroyed a temple and burned the idol of Maa Kali in Murshidabad area of West Bengal. Shameful."

advertisement

Speaking to India Today, temple authorities refuted any communal angle to the incident and said they were yet to ascertain the cause of fire.

Several social media users were more direct in their accusations. The archived version of Arjun Singh's tweet can be seen here.

AFWA probe

Speaking to India Today, temple committee secretary Sukhdev Bajpai said, "Nothing has been stolen from the temple as is being claimed by some people. It is most likely that the idol of Goddess Kali caught fire by accident. We have not filed any FIR since we do not suspect foul play."

Earlier, replying to Arjun Singh's tweet, Murshidabad police shared a notice issued by the committee of the said temple, located in Murshidabad's Alampur village.

The notice in Bengali translates to, "The idol of Goddess Kali caught fire on the night of August 31. Hindus and Muslims have cordial relations in this area. We do not believe this incident could be a fallout of religious hatred. The temple was not broken into and nothing was stolen. But some people have been giving this incident a communal colour. We request all of you not to disturb peace. The administration is helping us."

Sharing the notice, Murshidabad police tweeted, "As stated by mandir committee it was a fire accident. Temple authorities are taking necessary action. Local police and administration coordinating."

West Bengal Police also posted a screenshot of Arjun Singh's tweet and said, "Legal action is being taken. Please don't get carried away by misleading, provocative and mischievous posts."

Since both the mandir committee secretary and police are denying any communal angle to the incident, we can say the viral claim of Muslims setting fire to an idol of Goddess Kali in a Bengal temple is misleading.