A video is going viral on social media sites. By sharing this video, users are claiming that the Bundelkhand Expressway, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a few days ago, collapsed within a few days. By sharing this video, people are slamming PM Modi and the Yogi government of UP.

Further, sharing this video, a Facebook user named, Manoj Chaudhary Lankesh wrote- “The condition of Bundelkhand Expressway … just a few days ago, Prime Minister has inaugurated this expressway. , Fake man’s fake work!!”

Similarly, many other users have shared the video targeting Modi and Yogi government.

Fact Check:

To know the reality of the viral video, we first did a reverse image search of some of the frames of the video. On searching, we found a video uploaded on the official YouTube channel of News- 24. According to this video of News-24, it is of the damaged bridge connecting Hoshangabad-Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh , when a part of the bridge collapsed in the very first rain. This bridge was built at a cost of crores.

At the same time, many other media houses have covered the Bundelkhand Expressway. The Times of India has covered it and has not used a picture of a bridge in its report. According to the report, the Bundelkhand Expressway collapsed and got damaged at some places only after the first rain.

According to the report of Dainik Bhaskar, Gawar Company of Rajasthan has constructed 296 km of Bundelkhand Expressway at a cost of 14800 crores. Due to the collapse of the expressway at 195 km, on Wednesday night, many vehicles were victims of the accident. On the other hand, on the four-lane expressway moving from Jalaun to Chitrakoot, only one lane is in use.

Further, Congress leader Supriya Shrinate wrote in the caption , “Development through Narmada Canal , Gujarat , Bundelkhand Expressway , Uttar Pradesh , Uttarakhand has now collapsed on the bridge of Bhopal and Hoshangabad in Madhya Pradesh. I got indigestion from Rewari , not Modi ji ? With this video has been tweeted.”

(“नर्मदा नहर, गुजरात बुंदेलखंड एक्स्प्रेसवे, उत्तर प्रदेश पुल, उत्तराखंड से होता हुआ विकास अब मध्यप्रदेश में भोपाल और होशंगाबाद के पुल पर आ कर ढह गया। रेवड़ी से अपच हो गयी, नहीं मोदी जी?”)

नर्मदा नहर, गुजरात

बुंदेलखंड एक्स्प्रेसवे, उत्तर प्रदेश

पुल, उत्तराखंड



से होता हुआ विकास अब मध्यप्रदेश में भोपाल और होशंगाबाद के पुल पर आ कर ढह गया।



रेवड़ी से अपच हो गयी, नहीं मोदी जी? pic.twitter.com/ZJqbjvKWq1 — Supriya Shrinate (@SupriyaShrinate) July 25, 2022

Conclusion:

Hence, it is clear from this fact check of DFRAC that this video is not of Bundelkhand Expressway, but it is Mandideep bridge of National Highway connecting Bhopal-Hoshangabad in Madhya Pradesh which collapsed in first rain itself and these two different news Therefore, users are sharing this video with the misleading claim,