Rajasthan remains a topic of discussion in social media and mainstream media these days. There are many such incidents in the past, which are being discussed all over the country. After Karauli in Rajasthan, there have been reports of violence and confrontation in Jodhpur. At the same time, the controversy about the demolition of a 300-year-old Shiva temple in Rajgarh, Alwar also caught a lot of attention. After which BJP and Congress have become attackers of each other.

After these controversies, there has been a flood of fake news on social media. Social media users are sharing a picture claiming that now a 300-year-old temple has been demolished in Jaipur, the capital of Rajasthan. It can be seen in this picture that the temple is being demolished by a JCB. Social media users are blaming the Congress government of Rajasthan for this.

A user named Umakant Pandey wrote on Facebook – “It is called Sarkar.Three hundred years old paper was discovered by the Rajasthan government and found that this Shiv temple of Alwar was built by encroaching on the land. It was demolished yesterday. Here some people are not able to find only fifty-sixty years old papers. And they have to go straight to the court.. Well, the government’s turn seems to be from it… the paper will have to be shown.. If three hundred years old paper is found, then how can we not get fifty-sixty years old…”(Translates Hindi)

Fact Check:

On doing a reverse image search on Google for the picture going viral, we found a piece of news published on the website of ‘Aaj Tak’ This news was published on 14th June 2015 at 6.43 pm. This news has been given the title- “200 years old temple demolished for the expansion of Jaipur Metro”.

Conclusion:

This fact proves that the claims being made by social media users are false and misleading. Also, two facts are coming out from the news published on ‘Aaj Tak’-

First- the Shiv temple was not demolished in the name of land encroachment but was demolished for the metro in Jaipur.

Second- In 2015, there was a BJP government under the leadership of Vasundhara Raje, not the Congress government of Ashok Gehlot.

Claim- 300 years old Shiva temple was demolished in Jaipur after Alwar

Claimant- Social media users

Fact Check – Fake