In the backdrop of the buzz around 'Howdy, Modi!' event in Houston, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted an old photograph of former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi waving at a huge crowd, claiming that the image was clicked in 1954 when Nehru and Gandhi were on a visit to the US.

Shashi Tharoor captioned the image as: "Look at the hugely enthusiastic spontaneous turnout of the American public, without any special PR campaign, NRI crowd management or hyped-up media publicity."

advertisement

To give you some context, PM Narendra Modi addressed the Indian diaspora in the US on September 22 at the Howdy, Modi! event at the iconic NRG Stadium in Houston.

Nehru & India Gandhi in the US in 1954. Look at the hugely enthusiastic spontaneous turnout of the American public, without any special PR campaign, NRI crowd management or hyped-up media publicity. pic.twitter.com/aLovXvCyRz Shashi Tharoor (@ShashiTharoor) September 23, 2019

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the image Shashi Tharoor, the former Minister of State for External Affairs, shared was actually clicked in 1955, during Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi's visit to Russia (then USSR- the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics).

The archived version of the tweet can be seen here.

The post has gone quite viral on Facebook and has also attracted around 4000 retweets till now.

In his tweet, Shashi Tharoor even misspelt Indira's name as "India Gandhi".

After Tharoor tweeted the picture, some social media users quickly responded by pointing out that he was off the mark. However, after realising his mistake, Tharoor put another tweet saying: "It still doesn't alter the message, the fact is that former PMs also enjoyed popularity abroad."

I am told this picture (forwarded to me) probably is from a visit to the USSR and not the US. Even if so, it still doesn't alter the message: the fact is that former PMs also enjoyed popularity abroad. When @narendramodi is honoured, @PMOIndia is honoured; respect is for India. https://t.co/9KQMcR0zTD Shashi Tharoor (@ShashiTharoor) September 23, 2019

To verify the claim made by the Congress leader, we ran a reverse search on the image. We found that the image was clicked in 1955 in USSR.

We also found an article published on the website of Russian newspaper Magnitogorsk Metal about the same event.

The article contains the viral image along that Shashi Tharoor claimed to be of US, with another picture of the same event from a different angle.

The author Nikolay Znamensky claimed that he was in Magnitogorsk, Russia, when Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi had visited the city. Recollecting the memories, he mentioned in the article: "In August 1955, Jawaharlal Nehru came to Magnitogorsk with his daughter Indira Gandhi."

advertisement

However, we found that Nehru-Gandhi's Soviet trip started on June 7, 1955, and ended on June 23, 1955. We also found some media reports of the same event.

Thus, it is clear that the viral image was clicked in 1955 during Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi's USSR visit.