A Facebook post doing the rounds on social media claims BJP MLA from Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh was beaten up by two women with shoes at a felicitation ceremony.

The 32-second video on Facebook has been shared more than 5,000 times. The message in the video reads, "BJP vidhayak ka swagat juton se kiya gaya, Hamirpur main aur karo jumlebaji."

advertisement

The video has been shared by Rajendra Shukla, who is the president of the Block Congress Committee at Kailaras in Madhya Pradesh. India Today Fact Check team found his claim to be a lie.

In the video, two women can be seen trying to put a garland around a man during the ceremony. Suddenly, one woman picks up her slipper and thrashes the man. A poster in the background reads: "Himachal Parivahan Mazdoor Sangh."

When we reached out to Shukla, he said, "I received this video on social media. I am not sure of its authenticity."

We contacted sitting BJP MLA of Hamirpur, Narinder Thakur, who denied of any such incident. "Such an incident did happen in Hamirpur but a Himachal roadways transport union leader was attacked and not me," Thakur said.

We searched for news using keywords "Himachal Pradesh Parivahan Union leader slapped" and found that the incident was widely covered by vernacular media. The search results showed that it was the Himachal Roadways Labour Union president who was attacked by two trainee women conductors on June 22, 2018. The women accused the union president of leaking an audio clip in which derogatory remarks were made on them.

According to jagran.com, the women were later sacked from their jobs.

Himachal Roadways Labour Union president Shankar Singh confirmed us that he was the one who was attacked by some women on June 22, 2018. During a felicitation programme, two trainee women conductors attacked me. I suspect they were angry as they were not given permanent jobs with the corporation.

Asked if he had any links with the BJP, Singh said, I am a RSS worker, but I have no links with the BJP.

India Today Fact Check team found that the claims made in the video are false. BJP Hamirpur MLA Narinder Thakur was not attacked during the event, rather it was Himachal Road Transport Corporation Labour Union president Shankar Singh who faced the brunt.