Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait is in the middle of a controversy yet again. This time, netizens accuse him of Muslim appeasement for reportedly raising “Allahu Akbar” slogans at Sunday’s kisan mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh.

Twitter users such as Priti Gandhi and Shefali Vaidya tweeted a small clip where Tikait is heard saying, “This government will try to instigate riots. Earlier too, when Tikait sahab was there, this slogan was raised Allahu Akbar Allahu Akbar.” A “PunjabTak” logo can be seen in the clip.

advertisement

While Vaidya wrote, “Cute. Tikait and Taliban speak the exact same language”, Gandhi captioned it, “But seriously, what has Allah hu Akbar got to do with #FarmLaws???”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral clip is edited. It is true that Tikait raised “Allahu Akbar” slogans at the farmers’ rally, but at the same time, he urged participants to shout “Har Har Mahadev” and “Allahu Akbar” together to show solidarity.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

DECODING THE VIRAL VIDEO

On September 5, Tikait and other farmers’ leaders joined the kisan mahapanchayat organised by Samyukt Kisan Morcha in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh.

Since the “PunjabTak” logo can be seen on the viral clip, we pulled out the original version of Tikait’s speech from its Facebook page. While reminiscing about his father Mahendra Singh Tikait, another popular farmer leader, Rakesh Tikait recalled the slogans raised during his time.

At 11 minutes and 17 seconds into the video, Tikait is heard saying in Hindi, “This government will try to instigate riots. Earlier too, when Tikait sahab was there, this slogan was raised Allahu Akbar Allahu Akbar.”

But after this, Tikait says, “Allahu Akbar and Har Har Mahadev were always raised together from here. These slogans will be raised together in future too. These people will try to divide us but we will keep on integrating”

This can be heard on Rakesh Tikait’s Facebook page too which featured his speech live.

It is true that Tikait shouted only “Allahu Akbar” and not “Har Har Mahadev” at the same time. But he urged farmers to raise both slogans together to show solidarity. Also, when Tikait said “Allahu Akbar” from the stage, both “Allahu Akbar” and “Har Har Mahadev” were heard from the crowd.

READ | Fact Check: Old video from Pakistan shared as Muslim man threatening to kill electrician in India

ALSO READ | Fact Check: This CCTV footage does not show Sidharth Shukla’s last moments

WATCH | Fact Check: This CCTV footage does not show Sidharth Shukla’s last moments