The Congress stands a divided house over the government’s move to revoke Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. Several Congress leaders such as Jyotiraditya Scindia, Deepender Hooda, Bhubaneswar Kalita and Janardan Dwivedi have voiced their support for the Narendra Modi government.

This was reported widely in the mainstream media.

The claim

Amid this, a message in Hindi is doing the rounds on social media, attributing it to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.

advertisement

The message claimed that Singh said the Congress will have to pay a huge price like staying away from power for years for going against the NDA government’s decision on J&K. But even then we are ready to sacrifice the party’s interest to save our nation.

The truth

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this to be a misleading claim. This message is not of Manmohan Singh.

The Congress Working Committee (CWC) had issued a statement as the party’s resolution on Article 370 and the current development in J&K. But there was no individual statement issued on behalf of Singh.

Netizens fall for viral message

Several Facebook users such as Pawan Karan and Mohammad Kaleem.

The message is also viral on Twitter.

What we found

On August 6, 2019, following the developments in the Parliament, the CWC, after a meeting, adopted a resolution. It called the NDA government’s decision to abrogate Article 370 unilateral, brazen and undemocratic.

The resolution also said, The Indian National Congress pledges to stand with the people of Jammu, Kashmir, and Ladakh and to fight the BJP and its divisive and diabolical agenda with every power in its hands.

Manmohan Singh was also present among other leaders in the CWC meeting. But there was no individual statement made on behalf of the former PM.

The newspaper report about the CWC meeting can be read here.

We contacted Manmohan Singh’s office, which outrightly discarded the viral message attributed to him saying it is totally fabricated and incorrect. His office also confirmed that the octogenarian leader has no personal social media account.

Conclusion

Nowhere in the CWC resolution or in any media report did we find any statement given by Manmohan Singh in public recently during the recent developments in J&K. His office has also rejected the viral message.

We, however, do not know what transpired in the closed-door CWC meeting and what Manmohan Singh said in the meeting.

But going by media reports and the party’s statement, we can conclude that the viral message is misleading and those are not Manmohan Singh’s words made in public.

advertisement

Also read: Fact Check: Pak journalist shares misleading pics to claim atrocities on Kashmiris

Alo read: Fact Check: Truth behind Pakistan soldiers carrying white flag as Indian jawan watches over