Amid voting for the Delhi assembly elections on Saturday, a video with communal slogans went viral on social media with the claim that the incident took place in the Capital.

The video shows a huge group of people gathered on the street and sloganeering, "Hindustan mein rehna hoga, Allahu Akbar kehna hoga (If you wish to stay in India, then you'll have to chant Allahu Akbar)."

advertisement

Columnist Tarek Fatah tweeted the video with the caption: In the #DelhiPolls2020, Muslim goons chant a provocative slogan against Hindus to boast Islamic supremacy. "Hindustan me rehna Hoga, Allah-O-Akbar kehna Hoga" (If u wish to live in India, then you'll hv to chant Allah-O-Akbar).

In the #DelhiPolls2020, Muslim goons chant a provocative slogan against Hindus to boast Islamic supremacy.



Hindustan me rehna Hoga,

Allah-O-Akbar kehna Hoga"



(If u wish to live in India, then

you'll hv to chant Allah-O-Akbar)

pic.twitter.com/Bx51eF3rdZ Tarek Fatah (@TarekFatah) February 8, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim with the video to be untrue. The viral video is more than two years old and from Udaipur in Rajasthan.

Till the filing of this story, the video was viewed almost 73,000 times and the post retweeted more than 1,800 times. The archived version can be seen here.

Some Facebook users have also shared the video with similar claims.







With the help of related keywords, we found a YouTube video carrying a report by news channel "India TV" on the viral clip. As per the report, the slogans were made during a rally by some Muslim groups at Udaipur's Chetak Circle on December 12, 2017. The crowd had also chanted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Bajrang Dal and Shiv Sena.



According to Scroll the rally was taken out against the killing of Muslim labourer Mohammed Afrazul by a man named Shambu Lal Regar. The murder took place in Rajasthan's Rajsamand on December 6, 2017.

Therefore, it can be concluded that a two-year-old video with communal slogans is being shared as a recent one. Also, the incident took place at Udaipur in Rajasthan and not Delhi as is being claimed.