Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing an uptick in violence with targeted civilian killings for the last few days. Five Indian Army soldiers were also killed in action during an encounter that broke out during an anti-insurgency operation in Poonch on Monday.

Soon after, two photographs of several men covered in shrouds started circulating on social media with the claim that they were corpses of Muslims killed in Kashmir.

advertisement

One such post can be seen below.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the image is false. The photo is from a 2020 protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) that took place in Aurangabad, Maharashtra.

AFWA probe

With the help of a reverse image search, we found a clearer version of the same photos shared by multiple social media users in February last year.

According to these users, the images are from an anti-CAA protest. The country witnessed a pan-India stir at the beginning of 2020 against the new citizenship law that allegedly discriminates against Muslims from neighbouring countries seeking refuge in India. The protests died down after the COVID-19 pandemic forced the nation into lockdown in March.

A closer look at this clearer version of the image also shows placards with CAA and NRC written on them.

We further searched and found a video from the same protest uploaded on a YouTube channel on February 24, 2020. The alleged Muslim dead bodies - as the claim stated - can be seen moving in this video.

Local news portals have also carried images similar to the ones in question as from the protest in Aurangabad.

In March last year, the same images were shared with the claim that they were men killed in Delhi riots. Boom fact-checked the images at the time.

It is thus clear that the images being circulated are more than a year old and from an anti-CAA protest held in Maharashtra and not related to Jammu and Kashmir.