On January 9, an Indonesian plane carrying 62 passengers crashed into the Java Sea shortly after take-off from Jakarta airport. Human remains and plane wreckage have been pulled out from the sea and officials claim that rescue workers have also located the black boxes of the Boeing 737-500.

Now, a post circulating on social media has a set of four pictures, apparently of relief operations in the aftermath of the crash. The post also gives out general information about the mishap.

advertisement

The first picture shows a plane floating in water, while the second appears to be of sailors pulling out debris from the water. The other two pictures show rescuers on motor rafts pulling people out of the water. The post gives the impression that the pictures were clicked after the recent plane crash in Indonesia.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that of the four pictures, only one is related to the recent plane crash in Indonesia. The other pictures are old and from different mishaps.

The post is viral on Facebook. The archived versions can be seen here and here. Let us now trace the viral pictures.

FIRST IMAGE

Using the reverse search, we found this picture of a floating airplane in many credible news reports. The picture was taken in September 2018 when an Air Niugini Boeing 737-800 carrying 47 passengers plunged into the water near Chuuk Island in Micronesia.

A "New York Post" report says one passenger died in the crash.

SECOND IMAGE

This picture was carried in a "Reuters" news report over a decade back. According to the caption, Brazilian Navy personnel are seen collecting debris of Air France flight AF447 in the Atlantic Ocean on June 8, 2009.

The airbus crashed on June 1, 2009, when it was on the way from Rio de Janeiro to Paris. All 228 people were killed in the crash.

THIRD IMAGE



AFWA found this picture in a report by "ABC News" published on January 14, 2019. According to the caption, the picture was taken in October 2018 when Indonesian Navy frogmen emerged from the waters during a search operation for victims of a crashed Lion Air plane in Tanjung Karawang. The airplane crash took the lives of 189 people.

FOURTH IMAGE

This is the only picture in the viral post that was taken after the recent plane crash in Indonesia. As per news reports, the picture is of Indonesian Navy divers pulling out a part of the airplane that crashed into the Java Sea on January 9.

advertisement

AFWA also found that the long caption of the viral post was copied from a BBC report.

Hence, it can be concluded that three of the four pictures in the viral post have nothing to do with the Indonesia plane crash and are related to other mishaps. However, similar visuals can be seen in this "Gulf News" photo gallery on the Indonesia plane crash.