Did the Indian government waste thousands of crores on statues while its neighbour China spent the same amount on building state of the art infrastructure?

Social media users are sharing an image comparing the expenditure incurred by the Indian government on the Statue of Unity with a bridge built in China.

The claim attached to the image says that the Chinese government spent the same amount -- Rs 3,000 crore -- to construct a bridge that the Indian government spent to build the Statue of Unity in Gujarat.

advertisement

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this claim to be misleading.

A Facebook user named "Jagadeesh Jagadeesh" shared an image in a public group named "ANBAL INAIVOM" on November 6.

The archived version of the post can be found here.

The post showed two images juxtaposed next to each other. On one side it showed the Statue of Unity in India along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's picture and on the other side, it showed a bridge's photo along with that of Chinese President Xi Jinping.

The post was shared by hundreds of users till the time this story was filed.

The caption was written in Tamil whose translation in English is: "This is the difference between a wise man and a fool".

Rs 3,000 crore and the respective names of the countries were written on both the images.

The image was comparing the amount the Indian government spent on the construction of the Statue of Unity while claiming that it was equivalent to the amount China spent on a bridge in its country.

The same image was also shared on social media platform ShareChat, infamous for spreading fake news in regional language.

FACT CHECK

The India Today Anti-Fake News War Room first cropped the image and then searched it on Google reverse image search. The search results showed images of "Danyang Kunshan Grand Bridge", the longest bridge in the world which connects Shanghai with Nanjing, a city in Jiangsu province of China.

However, when we tried to look for further evidence about this bridge, we came across a report in The Telegraph UK

According to this report, the bridge in question is actually a part of the Jiaozhou Bay Bridge and not Danyang Kunshan Grand Bridge which the reverse image search in Google suggested.

The Jiaozhou Bay Bridge was opened to the public in July 2011 and this particular architectural design is a part of 42.4 km long bridge. It was constructed in four years for $1.55 billion or roughly Rs 10,000 crore, the BBC had reported.

advertisement

However, Rs 10,000 crore is the cost of the entire 42-kilometre bridge to connect the two cites and not just the part visible in the viral picture. We could not find any details of how much this particular part of the bridge shown in the picture might have cost.

The Statue of Unity costs around Rs 3000 crore.

The cost of the Chinese bridge was more than three times the cost of the Statue of Unity.

However, it is to be noted that China also invests huge amounts of money on statues. Before the Statue of Unity was opened for the public, China had the record of having the tallest statue in the world. The Spring Temple Buddha statue in China is now the second tallest statue in the world built at a cost of $55 million (Rs 400 crore) in 2002.