Tension has mounted along the Line of Actual Control as the Indian Army thwarted another attempt by Chinese troops to capture a forward post at Ladakh. This was followed by an incident of firing as claimed by both sides.

On Facebook, some users (are posting a picture of soldiers capturing a bunker () with the claim that this is a scene from clashes at Eastern Ladakh.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this is a picture from the joint Sino-Indian Humanitarian Assistance & Disaster Relief Exercise that was conducted by troops from both sides in Ladakh in 2016.

Multiple Facebook users have shared the image believing it to a picture of the recent clashes. The archived versions of the posts are saved here , here and here.



AFWA probe

Using reverse image search, we found that this picture, along with a few others, was tweeted by the Northern Command of Indian Army on October 20, 2016. The caption of the post reads, " Joint Sino-Indian Humanitarian Assistance & Disaster Relief Exercise conducted by soldiers in Ladakh."

Joint Sino-Indian Humanitarian Assistance & Disaster Relief Exercise conducted by soldiers in Ladakh.@adgpi pic.twitter.com/x1GIF2OzdP — NorthernComd.IA (@NorthernComd_IA) October 20, 2016

The event was covered by several media outlets at that time.

According to these news reports, India and China had carried out a joint army exercise in eastern Ladakh in Jammu and Kashmir, a move that had come "amid hectic diplomatic maneuvering between the two countries over a host of issues".

Under the Border Defense Cooperation Agreement, 2013, Indian and Chinese armies held the second joint "Sino-India Cooperation 2016" exercise. This was a sequel to the first exercise held on February 6, 2016. Soldiers of Chushul Garrison from India and Moldo Garrision from China participated in the exercise.

Hence, the viral post claiming the picture to be from the recent clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh is actually from a joint military exercise carried out by both countries in 2016.