Naseeruddin Shah's stand on the ongoing farmers' agitation is well known. In a recent interview, the Sparsh actor even questioned the silence of Bollywood bigwigs on the protests.

However, little did he know that his role in the farmers' movement would be amplified by some Twitter user who would create a fake profile in his name and post repeated tweets on the issue. Worse, thousands of other users would believe the words to be coming from his mouth.

advertisement

The Twitter handle "@naseruddin_shah" had nearly 60,000 followers before it was first deactivated on the evening of January 9, and then put up again; this time with a bio mentioning "parody". The archived version of the earlier handle can be seen here.

One account, three avatars

Incidentally, this handle was earlier impersonating farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and tweeting pro-farmer and anti-government posts. How do we know it? Well, every Twitter account has a unique ID which cannot be changed even when the handle name is changed.

Using TweetBeaver tool, we found that the Twitter ID of the account "@naseruddin_shah" is 1156454382675869696. When we looked for this ID in Yandex search engine, we found that the same Twitter account was earlier active with the handles "@RakeshTkaite" and "@TurkBilal007".

When we searched for tweets sent to the Twitter handle "@RakeshTkaite", we found several of them in which people addressed the person as "Tikait ji".

Similarly, when we searched for tweets sent to "@TurkBilal007", we found a tweet mentioning the handle. Additionally, we found absurd tweets such as "Will nobody follow me back?" Obviously, Naseeruddin Shah would never beg for retweets in this manner.

Who's the impersonator?

Using the tool "Social Bearing", we looked into hashtags most frequently used by this account. We found that along with tweets on the farmers' protest, this person has used the hashtag "Amroha" repeatedly. We further found that this Twitter handle was also active with the username "Bilal Mughal Amrohi" in the past.

Thus, there is a possibility that the person operating this handle could be associated with Amroha in Uttar Pradesh.

We also found a Facebook page named "Bilal Ahmed Amrohi". The username of this page is "@indianmuslimektapage". Here, we found several screenshots from the deleted Twitter handle "@TurkBilal007". This indicates that both these accounts could be interconnected and are possibly being operated by the same person.

Additionally, on this page, there is a mention of a website "http://bilalahmedamrohi.com/" which was not functional at the time of filing this story. However, the name of the website also suggests that this website and the Facebook page with the username "@indianmuslimektapage" belong to the same person who impersonated Rakesh Tikait and Naseeruddin Shah on Twitter.

advertisement

In the cached version of the deleted Twitter handle "@TurkBilal007", we found the picture of the person who most likely created the fake handles. Ironically, the caption says, "I'm not perfect but atlest I'm not fake".

Recently, Naseeruddin's wife Ratna Pathak Shah told the media that he does not have a Twitter account. She said that the account created in July 2019 and posting in favour of farmers' protests while impersonating Shah does not belong to the "Iqbal" actor.

Since the Twitter handle "@naseruddin_shah" was also created in July 2019 and is posting in favour of farmers' protests, it is most likely that she was talking about this particular handle. Naseeruddin, however, has a verified Facebook page with the username "NaseeruddinOfficial".