Just days away from the first phase of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, social media saw claims that Kanhaiya Kumar, Congress's new star recruit, was heckled and attacked by his own party member in Lucknow. Sharing a video of the alleged incident, some Facebook users claimed that Kanhaiya was beaten by his own party workers.

The claim, originally in Hindi, roughly translates to, "Rahul Gandhi's darling Kanhaiya Kumar has been beaten by Congress workers." A flag of the Congress party is visible in the low-quality video.

advertisement

Archived versions of some similar posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room found this claim to be not true. Kumar was not being attacked in the video making the claim.

AFWA Probe

With the help of some keywords from the viral post, we came across a report published in "The Times of India" on February 2. It stated that "ink" was allegedly thrown at Kumar by a youth named Devansh Bajpai in the Lucknow Party office.

But Kanhaiya Kumar was not seen in the viral video. It was still not clear who was the person being heckled in that viral video. So, with the help of the Invid tool, we took some screenshots of the viral video and ran a reverse image search.

This led us to multiple media reports of that day about this incident in the Congress office. We came across a video uploaded by News24 on its YouTube channel on February 1 alongside a caption in Hindi which translates to, "Ink thrown on Kanhaiya Kumar outside the Congress party office." When we compared both frames, it became clear that both the videos are the same and this video is from the Lucknow party office of Congress.

We found another video report published by Zee Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand where it was mentioned that Devansh Bajpai, who allegedly threw "chemicals" at Kanhaiya, was beaten by the party workers. But the suspect's face was not visible enough.

Further search took us to a YouTube video uploaded by Times Now on February 1. In this video, the man Bajpai can easily be seen at the 11-12 second mark. His face reappears clearly towards the end of the video.

So we conclude that the viral video claiming Kanhaiya Kumar has been beaten by his own party workers is not true. It was Devansh Bajpai who got heckled by Congress workers.

(with inputs from Riddhish Dutta)