Prime Minister Narendra Modi's parliamentary constituency Varanasi was found to be the cleanest among cities along the river Ganges in the Sanitation Ranking list of the Swachh Survekshan 2020 held in over 4,000 cities and towns in the country.

While Varanasi was awarded the Cleanest Ganga Town, an image of a road dug up and filled with sewage water is viral on social media with the claim that it is from Varanasi.

advertisement

The text superimposed on one such image uploaded on Facebook reads, “BJP government has turned Benares into London.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim to be false. The image is from Sangam Vihar, an informal settlement in South Delhi.

The archived version of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA Probe

With a reverse image search, we found that a similar image has been viral on social media at least since the year 2018 with the claim that it is from Delhi.

We found multiple posts carrying the image in question on Twitter in January 2020. The posts criticise Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for neglecting the Delhi roads.

Another post from 2018 carrying a similar image with the same shops and surroundings has mentioned that the photo is of Ratiya Marg in Sangam Vihar, New Delhi.

Came here to met my relatives but bich raste se wapas lautna para #Ratiya_marg #sangamVihar pathetic situation @ArvindKejriwal pic.twitter.com/Rbr3yym4W0 — Aarush Shaw (@Aarushshaw007) July 10, 2018

A closer look at the image helped us identify one of the signboards of a cake shop in the photo — Ansh Cake Palace.

When AFWA reached out to the owner of the shop, Deepak Arora, he confirmed to us that the image is from street number eight of Ratiya Marg at Block D of Sangam Vihar in New Delhi.

“The image is from Sangam Vihar. However, the photograph is at least a few months old. The road was broken for the construction of stormwater drains that time. But that work never happened and the condition of the road is still more or less the same,” he said.

Arora also shared with us some photographs exhibiting the current condition of the road in Ratiya Marg.

We were also able to geolocate the shop at Ratiya Marg on Google Maps.

Down To Earth and DNA that discusses the faulty stormwater drains in Sangam Vihar which is Delhi’s largest unauthorised colony. Also, there are articles byandthat discusses the faulty stormwater drains in Sangam Vihar which is Delhi’s largest unauthorised colony.

Hence, it is safe to say that the viral image of a road in a poor condition is from Ratiya Marg of Sangam Vihar in New Delhi and not is not related to Varanasi.