A set of images of several Shiva Lingas carved in stone on a river bed is being widely shared on social media. The pictures have gone viral with the claim that this is for the first time in India’s history that lakhs of Shiva Lingas were seen in Karnataka’s Shivakashi river after water levels dropped.

The caption in Hindi along with the viral images translates to, “For the first time in the history of India, lakhs of Shiva Lingas were seen in Karnataka’s Shivakashi river after water levels dropped. Har Har Mahadev! Sanatan culture continues to give evidence of its grand history. Wake up Hindus, recognise Sanatan culture. It’s the best. Be proud to say that we are Hindus.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The images are from Sahasralinga, which is a famous pilgrimage place on the banks of Shalmala river in Karnataka, and famous for its 1,000 Shiva Lingas.

advertisement

The archived versions of some of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe Reverse-searching the images, we found a similar picture on the official website of Uttara Kannada district. As per the website, the picture is from Sahasralinga, situated on the banks of Shalmala river in Karnataka’s Uttara Kannada district. Sahasralinga in Sanskrit means 1,000 idols, and the place is famous for its 1,000 Shiva Lingas.

The website further says that Sahasralinga is an important eco-tourism spot in the district and also attracts thousands of devotees on Shivaratri. According to the district administration, these lingas were carved between 1678 and 1718 AD, under the patronage of then king of Sirsi, Arasappa Nayak, for his descendants.

We also found the viral images in a blog from 2011. This means the images are not recent and at least nine years old.

According to some travel blogs, the best time to see these idols is from October to March when water levels in the river are low. Most of the lingas get submerged in monsoon.

Similar claims regarding the Shiva Lingas went viral two years back as well and “The Times of India” had then debunked it.

Therefore, the claim that lakhs of Shiva Lingas were seen in Karnataka’s Shivakashi river is misleading. Some 1,000 Shiva Lingas are on the banks of Shalmala river in Karnataka’s Uttara Kannada district. For years, it has been a popular pilgrimage destination.