The man in the video is Jagdeesh Chandra who is the head of a Rajasthan based media channel named First India News. He is not a Congress spokesperson.

With the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2022, the internet has been witnessing misleading posts related to the political parties and political personalities.

PM Modi representing BJP and Rahul Gandhi representing Congress can be seen spearheading their election campaigns for their parties promising a strong contest in Uttar Pradesh.

Amidst this, a video allegedly showing a Congress spokesperson hailing PM Modi as a hero and accepting that it is very difficult for Rahul Gandhi to compete against him. He adds further that it has become even more difficult to defeat PM Modi in Uttar Pradesh after the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath corridor. PM Modi recently inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath corridor, which created ripples across mainstream and social media platforms.

Social media users claim that the man in the video praising PM Modi is a Congress spokesperson and that now even Congress party workers have started turning against their party.

The caption of the video mentions, “When Congress spokesperson was asked by journalist, can Rahul Gandhi compete with Narendra Modi? Then listen what the Congress spokesperson said about Modiji”



Let us find out whether a Congress spokesperson has really hailed PM Modi as a hero whom Rahul Gandhi cannot defeat.

Facebook Post | Archive Link | Facebook Post

This video is widely circulated on Facebook.

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by carefully observing the video where we found the account name of “first india news”. Keeping this in mind, we ran a keyword search on Google, which led us to the same video posted on Youtube by First Indian News on 14 December. The caption of the video states that it shows the New JC show where the speakers are discussing on the controversy around Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s new book. We could not find any designation or the name of the speaker. The video is a small clip of 47 seconds extracted from a larger video.

Next, we ran a keyword on Youtube, which led us to the entire interview published by ‘First Indian News’. The full interview is 1 hour 17 minutes long. The video was posted on 14th of December. In the beginning of the video, we can hear the anchor describe the man seen in the viral video as Jagdeesh Chandra who is the channel head.

Upon searching about the Jagdeesh Chandra, we found that he is the CMD of First India News and CEO and Editor-in-Chief of First India, an English daily with three editions. We also found another tweet by first India News, which stated that Jagdeesh Chandra is the company’s CMD.

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the viral video on social media to be False. The viral video does not show any Congress spokesperson praising PM Modi and agreeing that Rahul Gandhi does not stand a chance against PM Modi. The man in the video is the Jagdeesh Chandra who is CMD and the head of a Rajasthan based media news channel named First India News.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)