Shocking visuals of a man in a maroon t-shirt approaching a policeman and firing indiscriminately during the recent violence in Delhi have spread like wildfire on social media. Amid massive outrage, the man was later identified as one Shahrukh from Shahdara.

The incident took place on February 24 in northeast Delhi’s Jaffrabad. Many on social media, however, claim that the man is not Shahrukh but one Anurag Mishra. Facebook page Ruhani ILAAJ AASAN Amal posted a series of photos with a caption in Hindi which translates to, Shahrukh turned out to be Anurag Mishra. Look at the Islamophobic outlook of police and media and the propaganda they’re indulging in.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Shahrukh and Anurag Mishra are two different people. As per Mishra’s Facebook profile, he is an actor.

Many other Facebook users such as Kezarullah Z Pathan Aimim, Md Reza and Imran Khan have made similar claims.

To verify the claim, we found some media reports in which police said that the man has been identified as 33-year-old Shahrukh. He is a resident of Delhi’s Shahdara. News agency ANI also tweeted the statement by Delhi police.

Delhi Police: The man in a red t-shirt who opened fire at police during violence in North East #Delhi today has been identified as Shahrukh. pic.twitter.com/xeoI7KpBPh ANI (@ANI) February 24, 2020

On the other hand, according to the Facebook profile of Anurag D. Mishra, he is an actor living in Mumbai. He hails from Dadra and Nagar Haveli. He posted his video on Facebook clarifying that he is Anurag and will take action against the people who have posted such fake news on social media.

Hence, it is clear that Anurag Mishra and the man indulged in violence at Jaffrabad are two different people. The name of the man is Shahrukh.

Update: Later Anurag posted a video on his Facebook account saying that he will take action who has posted such fake news on social media. The video message of Anurag has been incorporated and updated in the story. We have also removed the references about the arrest of Shahrukh by Delhi police. In the latest interview given to a TV channel, DCP ( North-East) Ved Prakash has said that Shahrukh has been identified but he is yet to be arrested.

READ | Fact Check: Taj Mahal being hosed down to welcome Donald Trump? No, this is not Agra

READ | Fact Check: BR Ambedkar's great-grandson mistakes cattle breed for caste