The elections in Uttar Pradesh promise to be an exciting affair with several alliances cropping up and some new entrants willing to test the waters. One prominent name in the latter group is of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).

The AAP has turned out to be a major talking point in UP’s political discourse. And its opponents too do not miss out on any opportunity to take a dig at the party.

advertisement

On social media, a collage of three pictures of Arvind Kejriwal, Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh in different attires is going viral. A sarcastic comment in the postcard says while AAP leaders don skull caps during elections in Delhi, it changes to saffron scarves when polls are held in UP.

The archived versions of the claims can be found here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading as the images of AAP leaders in skull caps are not linked to elections in Delhi. Only the picture of Sisodia and Singh in saffron scarves was taken in Ayodhya last year.

Let us look into the three images one by one.

Image 1

A reverse search of Sanjay Singh’s image led us to a news report published on July 10, 2016. In the wider picture, Kejriwal can also be seen offering prayers beside Singh.

The picture was of an “Eid Milan Samaroh” in Delhi’s Saket. An “Aaj Tak” report published on July 8, 2016, also confirmed Kejriwal’s attendance in the event.

While tweeting Eid wishes, the official handle of “AAP Punjab” on July 7, 2016, also carried the image of Kejriwal offering prayers.

Image 2

Reverse-searching the picture of Kejriwal and Sisodia in skull caps, we came across a picture gallery published by “The Times of India” on July 1, 2016. The ninth image in the gallery shows the original picture where the two AAP leaders are seen speaking to a Muslim cleric.

According to the report, the picture was taken during an Iftaar party hosted by Kejriwal in New Delhi.

Image 3

The third image of Sisodia and Sanjay Singh in saffron scarves, however, was taken when UP elections were knocking at the door. A reverse search led us to an article published in “Hindustan Times” which had the same image.

With a further keyword search, we found that the picture was posted by Sisodia on the banks of Sarayu river during his visit to Ayodhya in September 2021.

Another report by “The Times of India” published on September 14, 2021, said the two AAP leaders visited Ayodhya a day ahead of the party’s ‘Tiranga Yatra’.

Therefore, it is clear that the claim in the viral postcard is misleading as the pictures of the AAP leaders in skull caps are from 2016 when there was no election in Delhi. The Capital saw assembly elections in 2015 and municipal polls in 2017.