A 600-km Ganga Expressway to connect Meerut and Prayagraj will be the world's longest expressway, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on January 29, 2019.





UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath: Cabinet has decided to make Ganga-Expressway, to connect Prayagraj with Western Uttar Pradesh. This will be world's longest expressway, approximately 600 km, it will take 6,556 hectares of land, it will cost approximately Rs 36,000 crore. pic.twitter.com/aLXt8CNd1B — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) January 29, 2019





"text-align: justify;">The decision was taken at the state cabinet meeting held at Prayagraj, the venue of the Kumbh Mela. It is only the second time in the history of Uttar Pradesh that the cabinet meeting has been held outside the state capital,The Economic Times reported on January 29, 2019.

The expressway is likely to cost Rs 36,000 crore and will be built on a stretch of 6,556 hectares land, said Adityanath.

The proposed Ganga Expressway will pass through Meerut, Amroha, Bulandshahr, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Kannauj, Unnao, Rae Bareli and Pratapgarh districts and end at Prayagraj.

The CM's claim that the Ganga Expressway would be the longest in the world is false. Many countries have many longer expressways. It will not be the longest even in India.

The Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg, or the Nagpur-Mumbai Super Communication Expressway, is likely to cover 700 km, according to data from the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation which is developing the project.

It will enable commuters to cover the distance between Nagpur and Mumbai in eight hours, compared to the present 16-18 hours. As many as 24 of the 36 districts in Maharashtra will be connected through this fast-track expressway, data show.

Source: Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg website

The Agra-Lucknow Expressway is the longest one in India currently (302 km), followed by the Yamuna Expressway (165 km).

The 48,000-km Pan-American Highway, running from Prudhoe Bay in Alaska to Ushuaia in Argentina, is the world's longest.

We welcome feedback. Please write to respond@indiaspend.org. We reserve the right to edit responses for language and grammar.