Amid the instability of Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi government, a video of Amit Shah is being circulated on social media with the claim that the Home Minister has hit back at Uddhav Thackeray, saying he will topple the Maharashtra government.

One such post can be seen below.

AFWA found that the video is from a 2021 speech made by Shah. Nowhere in this speech did the Home Minister say he will bring down the Uddhav Thackeray-led government.

AFWA Probe

advertisement

In the five-minute-long viral video, Shah takes a dig at the Maha Vikas Aghadi and also speaks about the Bharatiya Janata party’s rift with the Shiv Sena following the 2019 Maharashtra assembly elections. However, nowhere in this clip can we hear Shah saying that he will topple the Maharashtra government.

We searched for the video in question on the internet and found a 28-minute-long version of the same video uploaded on the official YouTube channel of Amit Shah on February 7, 2021. The video was titled, “HM Shri Amit Shah inaugurates SSPM Lifetime Medical College in Sindhudurg, Maharashtra.”

This confirms that the video is old and Shah did not make the speech following the Shiv Sena MLAs rebelling against the party.

The viral clip starts 19 minutes and 30 seconds into the video. In this video, Shah did not say that he will bring down the Thackeray-led government. Shah could be heard praising BJP leader Narayan Rane as well as the work done by the Centre during the surge of Covid-19. He also attacked the Shiv Sena government, saying that after the assembly elections, the party had disregarded the mandate of the people of Maharashtra who wanted to form a BJP-Shiv Sena government under the leadership of ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis.

The summary of this speech is available on the website BJP.org. It too has no mention of Shah speaking about toppling the Shiv Sena government.

We searched for recent remarks of Shah regarding this, but couldn’t find any.

According to reports, on June 21, 2022, Shah and BJP president, JP Nadda had held a meeting to discuss the situation in Maharashtra. However, there is no report of Shah making any public comments on the ongoing political crisis in Maharashtra.

It is hence clear that the viral video is old and, in the video, Shah did not say he would overthrow the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra.