Social media users in Pakistan are widely sharing a split-screen video, which purportedly compares paratroopers from India and Pakistan. The video in which paratroopers are making a bad exit from the aircraft is superimposed with the Indian national flag, while the other video where paratroopers make stunning jumps is superimposed with the Pakistan national flag.

The caption along with one such 53-second video says, “Unbeatable my pak army my Allah save Pakistan and pak army ameen..!!”

advertisement Unbeatable my pak army my Allah save Pakistan and pak army ameen..!!#PakistanArmy pic.twitter.com/SdrkHb1HTc — Rao Salman (@Salman_Raaja) July 26, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. While the video showing paratroopers making a remarkable exit is from India, the other video is reportedly from Africa.

We also found several Indian Twitter handles reacting to the videos from Pakistan by interchanging the superimposed flags of India and Pakistan, and claiming that the clipping of poor-performing paratroopers is from Pakistan.

The archived versions of some of the claims posted by social media users in Pakistan can be seen here, here and here.

With the help of InVID and reverse image search, we found that the clip purportedly showing the exemplary skills of Pakistan paratroopers is actually of a group of Indian paratroopers jumping off a C-130J Super Hercules over eastern Ladakh.

Many media houses, including India Today, had reported about this thrilling video of the Indian Army’s skydiving exercise on July 17. The demonstration was part of defence minister Rajnath Singh’s visit to a forward outpost in eastern Ladakh amid tensions between India and China.

A public relations officer of the defence ministry had also uploaded the same footage through his official Twitter handle.

As to the other video in the viral posts, purportedly showing incompetent Indian paratroopers, a reverse image search with video key frames helped us find similar clips uploaded on multiple websites.

According to The Aviationist, the video is from Flintlock 2019, an African multinational training exercise in the Sahel region.

advertisement

We also found the same video on YouTube with the title, “African Jump Errors Exercise Flintlock 19, 2019.”

Hence, the video showing a group of paratroopers taking impressive back-to-back jumps from an aircraft is of Indian paratroopers demonstrating their skydiving skills in eastern Ladakh. The other video is from an African multinational training exercise.