Rahul Gandhi is again targeted by the Internet troll army after his statement on the Coal crisis. Rahul said the Narendra Modi-led Centre should stop running the “bulldozer of hatred” and run power plants instead. “Today, the coal and electricity crisis has created havoc in the entire country.”

Saying it again he said, “I am saying again — This crisis will destroy small industries, due to which unemployment will increase further. Small children cannot stand this scorching heat. The lives of patients admitted to hospitals are at stake. There will be financial loss by stopping rail and metro services.”

A Facebook page named Modi Once More shared a post that reads, “India’s coal production has increased in recent times. Factories are getting regular power supply. Yet Rahul Gandhi says India is facing coal crisis. In a desperate attempt to attack Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi, Rahul Gandhi is making fun of himself.”

Similarly, many other users have shared this post.

Rahul is getting trolled over the internet for his remark over the coal crisis. Union minister Prahalad Joshi called Rahul a fake astrologer.

Fact Check

In our fact check analysis, we checked the actual coal production and the supply of coal. We found a recent tweet of Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines, Prahlad Joshi in which he wrote, “@CoalIndiaHQ is mushrooming Nation’s energy security, inscribing a noteworthy rise in April’22. Coal production was 45.29 MT in 2019 and it increased to 53.47 MT in April’22, a 6% increase.”

Further, according to the repots published official site of national power portal, there is increase in the production of the coal but different thermal stations across the country faced coal shortage.

Moreover, Indian Railways cancels 657 reports to ensure coal transport. Financial Express on 27th April released a report on “Coal stocks reach ‘critical’ levels in 11 of 13 thermal power plants in UP.”

According to a report of The Hindu, Prahalad Joshi said not to panic for the coal shortage.

Conclusion

Since, the coal production has increased but still coal crisis is faced in different part of the country. Hence, the viral claim is misleading. It doesn’t take into account the full story.