With the number of coronavirus cases in China and other countries multiplying, a social media post suggesting preventive measures apparently issued by the health ministry in India is going viral. The measures include keeping one’s throat moist, wearing masks and avoiding fried or spicy food.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the ministry of health and family welfare did issue some preventive measures, but they were different from the ones mentioned in the viral post. In fact, the ministry has also issued a travel advisory for China.

advertisement

The post, which is viral on WhatsApp and Facebook , suggests, keep your throat moist, do not let your throat dry up... once your membrane in your throat is dried, the virus will invade into your body within 10 mins. The archived version can be seen here.

AFWA probe

To verify the claim in the viral post, we checked the official website of the ministry of health and family welfare. We found that the ministry had issued a travel advisory on January 17, which was further updated on January 25, 2020.

The advisory includes a helpline number (011-23978046) for Indian citizens who feels sick and have fever and cough while traveling back to India or after return from China.

Govt’s advisory measures

The government advisory states some health measures, including observing good personal hygiene, washing hands frequently, wearing masks, avoiding contact with live animals, consuming raw/undercooked meat, etc. However, the advisory does not include keeping throat moist or avoiding spicy and fried food, as mentioned in the viral message.

The ministry had also shared these preventive measures recommended by the World Health Organization through its official Twitter handle.

Therefore, it is clear that though the health ministry had issued some preventive measures against coronavirus, they are not as same as mentioned in the viral post.

Also read: Fact Check: Truth behind mother fox feeding koalas during Australia bushfires

Also read: Fact Check: Irfan Pathan was meeting fans in Kolkata, not protesters at Shaheen Bagh