Social media is deluged with posts related to the ongoing India-Pakistan tension. A Facebook page called 'Voice of Pashtun' has posted a video of heavy firing, claiming it to be of "the current war going on in Pakistan's Sialkot region".

India Today Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) has found this claim to be totally false. This video is from the famous Knob Creek Machine Gun Shoot biannual event in the US.

advertisement

Facebook page Voice of Pashtun posted a 48-minute video of heavy firing at night with the caption: "Breaking news!... The current war is now going on in Pakistan's Sialkot region#PashtunsStand4Peace".

This post has been viewed by 93,000 people and shared nearly 2,000 times at the last count.

Voice of Pashtun is a news portal which focuses on the issues of Pashtun-Afghan society politics and culture. We found that the same shots have been repeated multiple times in the video to make it look long.

In the video, we can see people moving casually behind the guns and taking shots on mobile devices, which is very unlikely of a war-like situation.

With the help of verification tool Yandex, by reverse searching the key frames of the video, we found a web link of the same video by the name "epic machine gun night shoot at the knob creek gun range".

Knob Creek Gun Range is an outdoor shooting range located in Bullitt County, Kentucky, United States. Using the same keywords "epic machine gun night shoot at the knob creek gun range" on YouTube, we found a seven-minute video of heavy machine gun firing uploaded by "Military archive" in October 2017. Facebook page Voice of Pashtun has picked up a small portion of the video (from 00.32 seconds to 01.00 minute) and repeated the same in loops in the viral post.





The Machine Gun Shoot in Kentucky's Knob Creek Gun Range happens twice a year. It is one of the largest machine gun and military gun show that draws machine gun dealers, collectors and enthusiasts from all over the US. It is quite a popular event where thousands of gun-loving Americans come to witness machine guns exploding barrels filled with gasoline.

READ | Fact Check: This is not the video of missing IAF pilot

ALSO READ | Fact Check: This shelling video has nothing to do with ongoing India-Pakistan conflict

ALSO READ | Fact Check: Viral video of IAF airstrike is actually from a video game