Three days after the Karnataka state government issued a government order banning hijab in educational institutions, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) National Media Panelist Charu Pragya and its spokesperson Sanju Verma tweeted references to constitutional court orders supporting the government's decision.



FactChecker and BOOM , in a collaborative effort, verified these statements. Apart from the high court and the years, there are no other details mentioned. Verma and Pragya are not only vague in their assertions, but they have also failed to point out high court orders which have allowed students to wear headscarves in school. The duo in some instances have also cited incorrect years for judgement they could possibly be referring to.

Verma and Pragya jointly referred to a 2003 Bombay High Court and 2018 Kerala High Court orders along with Madras High Court decisions in 2006 and 2007 respectively. Additionally, Verma has also referred to a 2015 Supreme Court to say that hijab "was not needed in educational institutions".

Bombay High Court in 2003 Madras High Court in 2007 Kerala High Court in 2018 All have said that #Hijab is not needed in educational institutions.

Bombay HC in 2003,Madras HC in 2006,Kerala HC in 2018&SC in 2015,said, #Hijab is not needed in educational institutions The girl who shouted #AllaHuAkbar is NOT a Sherni,but just a misguided radical Shameful to see,people glorifying her regressive mindset #JaiShriRam My take👇 pic.twitter.com/qTem5Hbf0N





Except for the 2018 Kerala HC order, which appears to be the only contextually correct order referred to, and the 2006 Madras HC order pertaining to an Election Commission matter, none of the other orders find mention in the Karnataka government's reply before the high court in the ongoing hijab row proceedings.



In the past fortnight, the debate over one's constitutional right to wear the hijab has intensified on and off campuses and in the Karnataka High Court, where the bench led by Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi is conducting daily hearings on this issue.

Here are all the orders the duo referred to and what they say about hijabs in educational institutions.

Bombay High Court, 2003

Though Sanju Verma and Charu Pragya referred to a 2003 Bombay High Court order, FactChecker found no reference to the same. However, it did find an August 2002 order where the Bombay High Court had denied a minor girl's plea to wear a headscarf to her all-girls school. The minor Muslim girl had filed a plea in the high court after the school principal warned her against attending class if she wore a headscarf.

"A girl student not wearing the headscarf or head covering studying in an exclusive girls section cannot be said to in any manner acting inconsistent with the aforesaid verse 31 or violating any injunction provided in Holy Quran," the high court order read.

"The essence of Muslim religion or Islam cannot be said to have been interfered with by directing petitioner not to wear head-scarf in the school," it added. The court however, also noted that there was no reason to interfere since the student in question was attending school without her headscarf.

Madras High Court, 2006 and 2007

Sanju Verma and Charu Pragya erroneously referred to Madras High Court rulings in 2006 and 2007 to say that the court had said no hijab in educational institutions.

The Madras High Court has not passed any such order in either 2006 or 2007. Verma and Pragya did not reply to any attempts made by FactChecker seeking clarification or further details of the cases they mentioned.

Even though Pragya tweeted about a 2007 Madras High Court, she sent FactChecker a screenshot of a September 2006 Madras High Court order in the M Ajmal Khan vs Election Commission (EC) case. However, this order does not relate to hijab in educational institutions, it deals with Khan's challenge to the EC decision of adding photos of Muslim women to the eligible voters list.