President Vladimir Putin earlier declared the port city of Mariupol on the Sea of Azov "liberated" after nearly two months of siege and bombardment, despite leaving hundreds of defenders still holed up inside the giant Azovstal steelworks.

Following that, a collage of photos featuring a man replacing the Ukrainian flag with the flag of the Soviet Union went viral with the claim that these photos were taken at the Ilyich Iron and Steel Works plant in Mariupol.

advertisement

Many Facebook users shared this collage with the claim, “The red flag changed the Ukrainian flag over the Ilyich plant in Mariupol.”

The claim added, “Earlier, the flag of Ukraine was hanging there, which was thrown down. The complete liberation from Ukrainian nationalists of the Ilyich metallurgical combine, named after Ukrainian nationalists in Mariupol was announced on April 15. According to the official representative of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation, Major General Igor Konashenko, as a result of aggressive actions, the enterprise was completely liberated by the group of the Russian Armed Forces and the units of the National Police of the DPR.”

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the images were at least seven years old and not from the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The viral posts are archived here and here.

AFWA probe

Reverse searching the images led us to the Twitter account of Visegrád 24 that shared the collage on April 18 but wrote, “This is what the occupying forces did in Debaltseve in 2015 after taking control of the city in the Battle of Debaltseve, the final act of large-scale fighting before forcing Ukraine to sign the Minsk 2 accords.”

Further searches led us to a video uploaded to a YouTube channel called Ghost Brigade on March 3, 2015. The photos appeared to be screengrabs from that video.

In another YouTube video, uploaded on March 4, 2015, to the channel VOXKOMM International, we found the same frames. The title said, “Raising the Soviet flag on Donbas”.

Battle of Debaltseve and Ghost Brigade

The YouTube channel VOXKOMM International described the incident in the video as “Prizrak Brigade, Communist militiaman raises the Soviet flag on freed Debaltsevo.”

Debaltseve or Debaltsevo is a city in the Donetsk Oblast of Ukraine.

This channel also referred back to the YouTube video uploaded by the “Ghost Brigade” as the original source of the video.

The Guardian reported in February 2015 that thousands of government troops retreated from Debaltseve following a strategic victory for pro-Russia forces against Ukraine. The report said at least 22 Ukrainian soldiers were killed and more than 150 wounded in Debaltseve at the time.

We could not independently verify the exact location of the viral images. However, because these photos have been on the internet since at least 2015, we concluded that they were not from the recent battle in Mariupol, Ukraine.