On March 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi appeared on television to update citizens about the government's measures to fight Covid-19 and announced a nationwide precautionary curfew for Sunday between 7 am and 9 pm.

PM Modi asked Indians to observe stringent social distancing through self-quarantine for the 14-hour curfew period.

Since the briefing, the PM's new term 'Janta curfew' has sparked a buzz on the Internet. Social media users have started interpreting and explaining PM Modi's concept of 'Janta curfew' in various ways. Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp are now flooded with a certain 'scientific explanation' behind the curfew as to how it will break the chain of transmissions of the deadly coronavirus infection.

advertisement

At the time of writing this article, #jantacurfewchallenge saw more than 27,000 tweets and was the third most trending topic on Twitter in India.

One viral message says, "As coronavirus life at one place is 12 hours and Janta Curfew is for 14 hours so that places or points of public areas where corona may have survived will not be touched for 14 hrs could break the chain."

Logic behind Janta Curfew :



As corona virus life at one place is 12 hours and Janta Curfew is for 14 hours,

so that places or points of public areas where corona may have survived will not be touched for 14 hrs could break the chain.#JantaCurfewChallenge#JanataCurfewMarch22 pic.twitter.com/t5LpuulGKk Charan (@charan2697) March 21, 2020

Several social media users have come up with the same logic. This 'logic' is viral on Facebook as well.

India Today Anti Fake News Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. PM Modi, while announcing the curfew, did not mention this particular 'scientific' logic behind it. Here you can watch the full video of his speech.

Coronavirus is airborne

A study conducted by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases' Laboratory of Virology in the Division of Intramural Research in Hamilton, Montana, US, helps answer this question.

Researchers used a nebulizer to blow coronaviruses into the air. They found that infectious viruses could remain in the air for up to three hours. The results of the study were published in the New England Journal of Medicine on March 17, 2020.

Coronavirus on surface

A recent study found that "COVID-19 can survive up to four hours on copper, up to 24 hours on cardboard, and up to three days on plastic and stainless steel. Researchers also found that the virus can hang out as droplets in the air for up to three hours before they fall. But most often they will fall more quickly". This is according to the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases' Laboratory of Virology. The report was published by the Coronavirus Resource Center, Harvard Health.

advertisement

What can be concluded

No matter what social media users claim, according to the World Health Organization, "It is not certain how long the virus that causes COVID-19 survives on surfaces, but it seems to behave like other coronaviruses. Studies suggest that coronaviruses (including preliminary information on the COVID-19 virus) may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days. This may vary under different conditions (e.g. type of surface, temperature or humidity of the environment)."

It means the WHO itself is yet to come out with a definitive survival time of the COVID-19 virus. Several other news reports also quoted renowned institutes and experts on the survival time of coronavirus, but the definitive survival time of the virus is not yet known.

According to a WHO directive, the window period between getting infected and the first symptoms showing is two weeks. During this period, the virus can spread asymptomatically.

With PM Modi's one-day curfew, the purpose is to implement the idea of social distancing which is the need of the hour.

Hence, it can be said that while PM Modi's curfew call is vitally important and much needed, the 'scientific' explanations aired by social media users are misleading.

advertisement

Also read: Fact Check: Fake WHO's warning of lockdown in India goes viral

ALSO WATCH| We need to practice social distancing: Health ministry