Two pictures of a seemingly human-shaped stag are circulating on social media with the claim that a "trans-species man" who identifies himself as a deer was accidentally shot at by hunters. The claim in the form of a news report says the United States man had to be transported to hospital on a chopper.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

advertisement

After several people took the weird claim at face value, India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) tried to unravel the mystery and found that the screenshot is actually of a satirical article.

With the help of keyword search, we found the earliest version of the article published on October 30, 2020, on a website named "World News Daily Report", whose tagline says "Where facts don't matter".

The article identifies the deer-like man as 31-year-old William Tenenbaum from the US province of South Carolina. It goes on to quote one Dr Alexander Pischtaki as a physician treating Tenenbaum after the bullet injury.

However, the disclaimer section of the website clearly mentions that all articles published on the site are fictional in nature. The website has also given the same disclaimer under all its articles, including the "trans-species" one.

Who's the mysterious man?

Using Google reverse image search, we found a YouTube video from which the image of the "deer man" shared in the article was taken. The video was uploaded in January 2018 on the YouTube channel of a London-based studio called "Humanimals" which specialises in body art.

The video gives body painting credit to artist Lauren Baker.

According to the about section of the "Humanimals" website, they specialise in offering performers dressed in realistic animal characters for events. The website has multiple such images of humans dressed as unicorns, foxes and many other animals.

We then traced the image of "Dr Pischtaki", who according to the "World News Daily Report" article treated the injured man. This was a screengrab taken from an interview on ABC7 news channel.

The man in the video is Dr Anthony Cardillo, an ER specialist at Mend Urgent Care in California. He was explaining the effects of hydroxychloroquine in Covid-19 treatment.

Hence, it is clear that the news report in question is from a satirical article originally published by an international website known for its fictional stories. Earlier, Reuters had also debunked a similar claim.