Amulya Leona Noronha, a journalism student studying in Bengaluru, was arrested on February 20, 2020, when she had stood on a stage and raised “Pakistan zindabad” slogans during a speech. This was during a rally organised against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 (CAA) by All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi in Bengaluru.

The parliament of India passed the CAA on 11 December 2019 and amended the Citizenship Act, 1955. It provided a pathway to Indian citizenship for refugees from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan who are Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis or Christians, and arrived in India before the end of December 2014.

advertisement

Now, a couple of images purportedly of Amulya are viral on social media with the claim that she was spotted at the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Delhi. While one image shows a young woman in a beanie cap standing along with a group of men, the second image shows a woman in a scuffle with Owaisi.

The caption to one such image collage on Facebook reads, “The same girl in Farmers protest who raised Pakistan Zindabad in MIM meeting. What is this connection? Who are the forces behind this. All the same faces seen in every Anti National protest...”

The text in Telugu on top of the image collage translates to, "The girl who said Pakistan zindabad is now a leader, it’s our worst fate."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the viral images is misleading. The second photo in the image collage is that of Amulya. However, the girl in the first image is not Amulya, but Valarmathi, a student activist from Tamil Nadu who had visited the protesting farmers in January 2021.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Let us verify both the images separately.

PHOTO 1

We did a reverse image search of the first image in the collage and found the same image along with a couple of other images on the Facebook page of Anti Imperialist Movement-AIM.

According to the post description, the images show members of different political groups in Tamil Nadu participating in the farmers’ protest at the Tikiri border in Delhi. The photo also captured Professor Jagmohan Singh, nephew of Bhagat Singh. However, the post uploaded on January 25, 2021, had no mention of the rest of the members in the photographs.

AFWA contacted Muthuselvam, the secretary of AIM, who confirmed to us that the girl seen in the first image along with the viral claim is a Tamil Nadu-based student activist Valarmathi and not Amulya. He further added that the image in question is from a visit made by the members of AIM and a few other organisations to the protesting farmers in Delhi.

advertisement

AFWA also contacted Valarmathi who confirmed to us that the girl in the viral image is her and Amulya was not a part of their team.

“The girl in the first image along with the viral claim is me. I have shared the same image on my Facebook profile. I went to Delhi on January 25 representing the Public Welfare Student Awakening Movement (SUMS). We were five people representing multiple organisations from Tamil Nadu. We went to participate in the January 26 tractor rally and returned on January 27. I know Amulya only through social media. She was not a part of our team. Also, we don’t think she was at the protest site the time we visited Delhi,” Valarmathi, who is currently pursuing her Masters from Madras University told AFWA.

Valarmathi has shared the same photo on her Facebook page on 26 January 2021.

She also shared other images and videos from the January 26 tractor rally organised by farmers.

advertisement

We also found multiple news reports by The Hindu, The New Indian Express and The News Minute confirming Valarmathi is a student activist from Tamil Nadu.

PHOTO 2

With the help of reverse image search, we were able to confirm that the second image along with the viral claim is from the anti-CAA rally organised by Owaisi in Bengaluru on February 20, 2020, and the girl seen in the image is Amulya.

The same image was carried by the BCC on a report dated February 21.

Following the February 20 incident, Amulya was charged with sedition for raising Pro-Pakistani slogan and spent almost four months in jail before getting bail from a Bengaluru magistrate court. While Amulaya’s pro-Pakistan slogan left the organisers of the event red-faced, her arrest had led to a debate on the use of sedition charges in the country.

Before the police dragged her from the stage on February 20, Amulya was heard saying: “Hindustan Zindabad, Pakistan Zindabad, the difference is ” She was detained before she completed the sentence. Owaisi, who was present at the rally had also tried to stop Amulya from raising the slogan.

A video of the incident shared by ANI can be seen below.

advertisement #WATCH The full clip of the incident where a woman named Amulya at an anti-CAA-NRC rally in Bengaluru raised slogan of 'Pakistan zindabad' today. AIMIM Chief Asaddudin Owaisi present at rally stopped the woman from raising the slogan; He has condemned the incident. pic.twitter.com/wvzFIfbnAJ — ANI (@ANI) February 20, 2020

We also did not find any credible report confirming Amulya’s participation in the ongoing farmers’ protest.

Here is also a picture comparison between Amulya and Valarmathi.

Hence, it is clear that the image shared as Amulya attending the farmers' protest is that of a student activist from Tamil Nadu.