Amid the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, a photo of a missile inside an apartment's kitchen has gone viral on social media.

Several social media users shared the photo with the claim, “This Russian missile flew into a house near Kyiv in Ukraine where a family with nine children were praying the rosary in their living room. The projectile pierced the ceiling and struck the kitchen without exploding.”

advertisement

This Russian missile flew into a house near Kyiv in Ukraine where the family with nine children were praying the rosary in their living room. The projectile pierced the ceiling and struck in the kitchen without exploding. Coincidence? No. Providence! pic.twitter.com/mMs7Tpvcqh — Fr. Ferdinand Santos (@FatherFerdi) March 30, 2022

The India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found the claim along with this photo to be misleading. The photo is not from Kyiv, but from Kharkiv the second largest city in Ukraine. Second, there is no credible report that suggests that a family with nine children made a miraculous escape from the house in question.

Archived versions of posts with similar claims can be seen here and here.

AFWA PROBE

We reverse searched the image and found that The Sun had used the same photo in a report published on March 22, 2022. The headline of the report read, “Astonishing pic shows unexploded Russian missile sitting in Ukrainian family’s kitchen sink.”

The report said that an unexploded Russian missile was found lodged in the kitchen sink of a Ukrainian family's home “after smashing through the roof.” The missile reportedly only caused damage to the ceiling and sink in the house in Kharkiv.

This showed that the photo (and the incident) was from Kharkiv, the second-largest city in Ukraine, and not from the capital city of Kyiv. Second, there was no mention of a family with nine children who miraculously escaped in the report.

Ukraine's government also shared the photo of the unexploded missile from its official Twitter handle, tweeting: "Imagine, it was Sunday morning and you were sleeping with your kids," as it called again for NATO to impose a no-fly zone over the country.

But the tweet did not reveal any other details about the photo.

We found that the same photo was published in news reports in the Daily Mail and other news outlets. Although these reports said that the photo was from Kharkiv, none of them mentioned anything about the family that resided in the house.

advertisement

While we have not been able to independently verify the claim about the family with nine children, we can conclude that the photo is not from Kyiv — it’s from Kharkiv.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal in New Delhi)