India celebrated its 74th Independence Day on August 15, 2020. Amid the muted celebrations across the country, a video of an American Army band purportedly playing 'Jana Gana Mana' on August 15, 2020, as a display of honour to India is viral on social media.

The caption to one such video uploaded by Bollywood actress Raveena Tandon on her verified Twitter handle on August 15 reads, "Today at West Point officers academy usa".

advertisement Today at West Point officers academy usa pic.twitter.com/Tc2Umfl9a6— Raveena Tandon (@TandonRaveena) August 15, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. This is a 2019 video of an American Army band playing the Indian National Anthem during a joint military exercise between India and the US in Washington.

Until the time of filing this story, the post received around 6.7k interactions.

The video with misleading claims is also shared on Facebook by netizens.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

In the comment section of the viral video, a twitter user Surendra Singh Kalakoti alerted that the video is at least one year old and not recent.

Taking the first cue from this we did a reverse image search on Google by extracting the keyframes of the video.

We found that Asian News International (ANI) had tweeted a similar video on September 19, 2019, with the caption, "American Army band playing Indian National Anthem during the Exercise Yudh Abhyas 2019 at Joint Base Lewis, McChord."

#WATCH USA: American Army band playing Indian National Anthem during the Exercise Yudh Abhyas 2019 at Joint Base Lewis, McChord. pic.twitter.com/J9weLpKD3X— ANI (@ANI) September 19, 2019

Multiple media houses including India Today in 2019 had reported on the US Army band playing Indian National Anthem.

According to an India Today article published on September 19, 2019, the US Army band is playing the National Anthem for their Indian counterparts at the 15th edition of Yudh Abhyas, one of the largest joint-running military training and defence co-operation endeavours between India and the US.

Armies of India and the US will jointly train, plan and execute a series of well-developed operations for neutralisation of threats of varied nature during the exercise, says the report.

We also found the same video uploaded on the official YouTube in 2019.

Hence the claim that the US Army band played Indian National Anthem as part of India's 74th Independence Day celebrations is misleading. It is a 2019 video where a US Army band played the Indian national anthem for their Indian counterpart during a joint military exercise between the two armies.