This Sunday, in his radio show ‘Mann Ki Baat’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi encouraged people to use Indian handloom and handicraft products as much as possible. He said more the world knows about the richness and diversity of Indian handloom and handicrafts, the more our local artisans and weavers will benefit.

Some netizens, however, claim that weavers in PM Modi’s own constituency have no option but to kill themselves due to poverty. A heart-breaking picture of a weaver who hanged himself from a loom is circulating on social media with the claim that the incident is from Varanasi.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The incident is from Bengaluru.

The picture has been shared with a caption in Hindi which translates to, “In the Prime Minister’s constituency of Varanasi, this weaver hanging from his own loom revealed everything about the state of affairs even without saying anything. The condition of weavers in Uttar Pradesh is so bad that they are being forced to kill themselves.”

“What’s the use of a financial package worth Rs 20,000 crore if it cannot help the poor and labourers? The central and state governments have made a spectacle of deaths of the poor under the cover of corona. The central and state governments should take concrete measures so that people are not forced to take their own lives,” the post further says.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. The post is being widely shared on Facebook and Twitter.

AFWA probe

We searched for recent news related to weaver suicide in Varanasi. This led us to a tweet by Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma who said the incident did not take place under his jurisdiction.

Upon reverse-searching the viral image, we found it in several Kannada news websites such as “Just Kannada”. Translating the article in English, we found it was of a weaver named Lakshmipathi from Bengaluru who was forced to take the extreme step due to financial difficulties. Another related article can be seen here.

We contacted Lingaraju D Nonavinakere, who is the editor of a Bengaluru-based weaver community magazine named “Nekaaravani”. He confirmed that the incident took place in Bengaluru’s Agrahara Layout area. He sent us some more pictures of the incident in which Lakshmipathi’s wife Ananthamma can also be seen.

Lingaraju told us that 55-year-old Lakshmipathi hanged himself on July 23 because he was facing difficulties in repaying a bank loan of Rs 75,000. During the lockdown, his financial situation worsened. He had also taken loans from some friends who were pressuring him to return the money, Lingaraju said.

advertisement

Corporator Munindra Kumar, who lives nearby, also confirmed the same.

It is true that weavers in Bengaluru, as well as Varanasi, are facing financial hardships. Several news websites such as “Firstpost” and “The Times of India” have published articles on the financial difficulties being faced by weavers in the two cities.

But the image in circulation of a weaver who died by suicide is from Bengaluru and not Varanasi.