Amid the controversy over Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Nepal visit, a photo of Bharatiya Janata Party leader and Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia with Gandhi was widely shared with the claim that both Gandhi and Scindia attended the same wedding in Kathmandu.

One such post can be seen below.

The photo was shared by the verified Twitter account of Madhya Pradesh Congress Sevadal with a similar claim.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claims were untrue. This photo was taken in 2011 in Bhutan.

AFWA Probe

A reverse image search led us to a photo on the website of British stock photography agency Alamy. While it was not the same photo, it appeared to be from the same event. According to Alamy, this photo was taken on October 15, 2011, at Changlimithang Stadium in Thimphu, Bhutan. Adrees Latif shot it for Reuters.

The caption to the image read, “The fourth and former King Jigme Singye Wangchuck (R) watches his son King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck and his Queen Jetsun Pema (not in picture) take part in their wedding celebrations at Changlimithang Stadium in Thimphu October 15, 2011. Standing with King Wangchuck are his wives, India's Rahul Gandhi (C), Jyotiraditya Scindia, India's Minister of State for the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and his wife Priyadarshini Scindia (L).”

We, however, found the viral photo in a Hindustan Times story from October 2011.

Per the report, the photographs showed Gandhi and Scindia, who at the time was a Congress member, attending the wedding reception of King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuk and Queen Jetsun Pema.

The Hindustan Times published several photos of Gandhi and Scindia from the event.

Gandhi recently visited Kathmandu to attend the wedding of his friend Sumanima Udas. And his visit caused a scandal on social media amid speculations and baseless rumours. What’s clear, however, is that the viral image of Gandhi and Scindia was from a 2011 royal wedding in Bhutan. Claims of Scindia attending the wedding in Nepal with Rahul Gandhi were untrue.