Novel coronavirus has claimed over 48,500 lives as on April 2, 2020, and infected over 9.54 lakh people worldwide.

Amidst this, a video has gone viral on Facebook and WhatsApp claiming that Pope Francis is kissing the feet of "black people", asking for forgiveness due to the the novel coronavirus scare.

The viral video, posted by users like 'Tracey Idemudia' and 'Amb Joseph Orlando Beyan Jr' on Facebook, shows that Pope Francis is kneeling down to kiss feet of other people.

advertisement

The video caption read, "The pope is kissing the feet of black people asking for forgiveness for all the wickedness they gave done to black people since the beginning of times. The Coronavirus is changing the world and their attitude to black people. The world will never be the same again as we know it. Black people are the original people of the world and now we all see the truth."

The archived version of the post is saved here and here.

India Today Anti-Fake News War room (AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim.

The viral video is one-year-old and has no connection to the current novel coronavirus pandemic.

In April, 2019, Pope Francis knelt down and kissed the feet of South Sudan leaders at a Vatican retreat, urging them to stay in peace.

This video is viral on Facebook as many people have posted this video linking it to novel coronavirus.

With the help of keywords search, we found various international media portals had published reports on this event last year.

According to CNN news report published on April 12, 2019, Pope Francis broke the protocol for papal to kiss the feet of South Sudan leaders.

As per this report, Pope kissed the feet of President Salva Kiir Mayardit and then vice-presidents-designate Riek Machar and Rebecca Nyandeng de Mabior of Sudan. Kiir and Machar were once rivals leaders of Sudan.

BBC and VOA had also published similar reports on this event.

According to these reports, this was Pope Francis's earnest appeal to the once-warring leaders of Sudan to maintain peace in the region.

Hence, this viral video is one year old and has no relation to novel coronavirus.

Also Read | Fact Check: WHO never asked people to avoid bakery items due to coronavirus

Also Read | Fact Check: This viral video of mass graves is not from Italy but from a TV series