A newspaper cutting is going viral on social media sites, in which a picture of former President Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam is visible and his statement is also written that Muslims are not born terrorists, they are made in Madrasas.

On April 15, 2022, a user named Yogi Supporter posted a newspaper cutting with the caption, “How to become Kalam who has Kasab inside” on which it is written in capital letters, “A precious paper cutting, In this newspaper cutting, his statement is recorded along with dr kalam’s picture as follows, “Muslims are not born terrorists. They are taught the Quran in Madrasas, according to which they selectively kill Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs, Christians, Jews and other non-Muslims. It is very important to ban thousands of Madarsas operating in India to control terrorism.”

Anand Prakash Yadav’s March 22 post on the page of 288-Vidhan Sabha Kaiserganj condemns the running of a bulldozer at a Madarsa in Azizpur. In the comment box of the same post, a user named Pappu Singh Bahraich has also posted the same picture.

Fact Check:

On doing a reverse search image on the internet, we have not found any such statement from former President Kalam anywhere. If it had been for Dr. Kalam’s statement, it would have been available to be published or mentioned by some trusted institution. However, we found a blogpost dated December 14, 2014, which mentions the text of the viral clip, which is also written on APJ Abdul Kalam’s viral newspaper Cutting. It is titled ‘Computers and the Qur’an’. This blog has been written in the name of L.R. Gandhi.

This newspaper cutting has gone viral in Sep 2021 also.

Conclusion:

This fact check by the DFRAC proves that former President Dr Kalam has not made any such statement and that the newspaper cutting is photoshopped. Therefore, users are sharing it with a fake claim.

Claim: Muslims are made terrorists in Madrasas: APJ Abdul Kalam Claimed by: Social Media Users Fact Check: Fake

(Follow #DFRAC on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube.)