Syria has been reeling under a decade-old civil war, with opponents of President Bashar al-Assad waging a bloody conflict to oust the government. A fertile ground for extremists of every hue and cry, including the dreaded ISIS and some Al-Qaeda affiliates, the country has been witness to blasts almost every other day.

Now, a terrifying video of a suicide blast is circulating on social media with the claim that the attack took place outside Assad’s “palace”. Two men are seen jostling and trying to pin down a third man when he blows himself off, leaving body parts flying around.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AWFA) has found that the incident took place in front of a court building known as Justice Palace in Tartus, Syria, and not outside Assad’s residence.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen on these links: Link 1, Link 2, Link 3.

AFWA probe

With the help of reverse search and keywords, we found a similar video on the news website “alhurra.com”. According to the report published on September 23, 2021, the blast took place outside the Justice Palace in the city of Tartus in Syria.

According to the BBC, the incident was about a family dispute in which three people were killed and around a dozen injured. This report too says that the video was shot outside the Justice Palace in Tartus.

According to “proiqra.com”, a person detonated a hand grenade during an argument with a lawyer, due to a family dispute between them, which led to the killing of the lawyer and the person carrying the bomb, and wounding three officers, the lawyer’s brother and seven other people in front of the Justice Palace.

We got further confirmation when we geolocated the Justice Palace in Tartus on Google Maps. The building in the Google Maps image and the structure in the viral video look almost similar. The Presidential Palace of Syria is in the capital Damascus, which is over 250 kilometres away from Tartus.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video was shot outside a court building in Syria and not in front of the residence of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

(Inputs by Sonali Khatta)