Will banks in India be closed from September 26 to October 2? A few social media users are claiming so with the apprehension that because of the long holiday, ATMs will run dry. They are asking people to withdraw cash in advance.

Facebook user "Ayek Apan" claimed, "26th & 27th September - Bank strike announced. 28th September is 4th Saturday. 29th is Sunday. 30th half yearly closing. 1st Oct most staff will be on leave. 2nd Oct Gandhi Jayanthi holiday. So after 25th September next working day will be 3rd October. 7 days no bank work will be there. After 27th September most of the ATM's will also be dry. So keep cash in advance because you cannot go for digital transaction in vegetable or fish market except in super market & Malls."

Screenshot of the Facebook post

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the number of holidays listed in the post is not true. While the bank strike has been called off, it is not a holiday on September 30.



AFWA searched the Internet for news on the bank strike. The strike had been called by four employee unions of nationalised banks - All India Bank Officers' Confederation, All India Bank Officers' Association, Indian National Bank Officers' Congress and National Organisation of Bank Officers - against the Centre's merger decision.

However, after assurances, the strike has been called off. News about this can be read in Times of India. Therefore, all banks will function normally on September 26 and 27.

September 28 being the fourth Saturday of the month and 29th being Sunday, banks will be closed on both days. September 30 and October 1 are not holidays.

A spokesperson for India's largest nationalised bank, State Bank of India, said, "SBI branches would function normally this week and next week for customers with no disruption in normal banking services. ATM, digital transaction and online banking channels are available 24X7."

Also, the Reserve Bank of India does not list September 30 and October 1 as holidays. Even when half-yearly closing of accounts takes place, banking transactions do take place and banks function normally. Only October 2, which is a national holiday due to Gandhi Jayanti, is listed as a holiday.

Therefore, it is clear that banks across the country are not on extended holiday of seven days from September 26 to October 2 and social media posts claiming that ATMs will be running out of cash in this period is not true.