Amusement parks are supposed to give visitors a happy time. People buy tickets hoping to have fun and leave with memories to cherish. It is the last place one would expect tragedy to strike.

If a video circulating on social media is to be believed, that is exactly what happened to a youth who was fatally injured following an accident at Kanpur's Blue World Theme Park. The footage shows a young man dropping unconscious in a pool after colliding with a woman who came sliding into the water. Blood is seen gushing out from his head as his friends carry him off.

advertisement

"A woman sliding in the Blue Word theme park collides with a young man. The youth died on the spot due to the collision. The video of the death went viral. Wherever it is from, this incident should not be seen from the point of view of news. The lesson that can be learnt from this incident is that we and our family should be very serious and careful while having fun in the water park. There should never be any carelessness in the swimming pool," a Facebook post alongside the video read.

Similar claims have been archived here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim was misleading. The video shows an accident that happened at Mukundra water park in Rajasthan. The injured person didn't die but was let go after undergoing treatment for his head injury.

AFWA Probe

Despite multiple efforts, we couldn't retrieve any reports of accidental death at amusement parks in Kanpur or anywhere else in recent times. However, when we looked for accidents and head injuries caused at water parks, there were a few articles available. Among these was a report by Aajtak published on June 3, 2022.

The report said that a man was hurt at Mukundra park on Kota Road of Rajasthan's Jhalawar district. While the video has gone viral on social media, the injured youth is undergoing treatment at SRG Hospital, the story said. From the screengrabs attached alongside the report, it became clear that it was the same incident from the viral video.

Following this clue, we looked up the Mukundra water park in Jhalawar. Ran by the Mukundra Hotels & Resorts, Google Maps had several photos of the park. We found the pool and the twin spiral water slides similar to those in the video in these images.

Meanwhile, a similar search on Blue World Theme Park showed the structure and colour scheme of the water slides here are different to those seen in the video.

For further clarity, we reached out to stringer Firoz Ahmed, who compiled the report for AajTak. He confirmed that the video is from Rajasthan and not Uttar Pradesh. For further clarity, we reached out to stringer Firoz Ahmed, who compiled the report for AajTak. He confirmed that the video is from Rajasthan and not Uttar Pradesh.

"It happened on May 28, 2022. The victim belongs to Kota's Ramganj Mandi. He was rushed to the Emergency OT at Jhalawar's SRG Hospital where he got 3 stitches for the wound. He was later discharged," Firoz said. No police report was filed and the woman involved in the accident belonged to the same group as the victim, he added.

Firoz shared more photos and videos from the accident spot that helped us confirm that it happened at Mukundra water park in Rajasthan.

Hence, it is clear that a man didn't collapse and die in Kanpur's Blue World Theme Park following a mishap as claimed in the post. The footage shows a minor accident that happened in Jhalawar, Rajasthan.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena in New Delhi and Firoz Ahmed in Rajasthan)