Soon after the Ram Temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya concluded, a message started doing the rounds on social media claiming that the Sunni Waqf Board has decided to build a super specialty hospital like AIIMS on the 5 acres of land allotted to them in Ayodhya by the Supreme Court, which will be named after the Babri mosque. The viral post also claims that Dr. Kafeel Khan will be the director of that hospital.

advertisement

Several Facebook users have posted this message with a caption in Hindi along with a graphic image of the purported hospital with “Babri Hospital” written on it.

The loose English translation of the Hindi caption written on the viral message reads, “Masterstroke. Sunni Waqf Board has decided to build “Babri Hospital” on the 5-acre land given to them by the Supreme court, where like AIIMS free treatment will be given. Famous doctor Kafeel Khan could be the director of this hospital. A floor would be dedicated to the treatment of the children. Viral diseases like viral meningitis and other diseases will be treated here”.

India Today Anti Fake-News War Room ( AFWA) found this to be a misleading claim. The Sunni Waqf Board of Uttar Pradesh has called this viral claim completely baseless and untrue. According to the Board so far nothing has been decided about the construction on the 5-acre land.

Multiple users have posted this content on Facebook believing that the Sunni Waqf Board is coming up with Babri Hospital on the 5 acre land in Ayodha.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here, here and here.

AFWA probe

In a historic judgment in November 2019, the Supreme Court cleared the decks for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and also directed centre to allot 5 acres of land to the Sunni Waqf Board for the construction of a Mosque.

There are several news reports which claim that the trust built by the Waqf Board to oversee the construction of the mosque will also build a hospital, library and an Islamic research center on the 5-acre land.

India Today spoke to Syed Mohammad Shoeb, the Chief Executive Officer of UP Sunni Central Board of Waqf, who confirms that the viral post claiming that the Board will build a “Babri hospital” and Dr. Kafeel Khan will be the director is completely fake. “We are going to take legal action against whoever created and circulated this fake post,” said Syed Mohammad Shoeb.

According to the CEO of the Sunni Waqf Board, the board has not taken any final decision about the construction. “The hospital, library, research centre, that people are talking about are all proposals, we are yet to take any final decision,” he added.

advertisement

A 15 member trust called the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation Trust has been formed by the UP Sunni Waqf Board, recently.

The members of the trust will meet soon to discuss these proposals and will come out with final decisions about the construction on the 5-acre land given by the Supreme court.

With the help of reverse image search, we found the viral image of a hospital with “Babri hospital” written on it has been randomly picked up from a LinkedIn page and photoshopped.

Hence, the viral claim made by the Facebook post about the “Babri hospital” being constructed on the 5-acre land is misleading.