A video of a group of men brutally thrashing another man has gone viral on social media, linking it to the Covid-19 lockdown. The 2-minute-20-second video shows a man tied to a tree, while others are flogging and kicking him.

Several Facebook users have shared the video and blamed the media for fuelling hatred during the coronavirus lockdown. The caption in Hindi along with the video translates to, "The poison sown by the media is showing up. Hatred at the time of lockdown."

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is two years old and has nothing to do with the Covid-19 lockdown. This incident took place in March 2018 at Deoria in Uttar Pradesh due to personal enmity. There is no communal angle to the incident.

The viral video linking it to the Covid-19 lockdown began circulating on Facebook from April 13, 2020. Till the filing of this story, the post was shared more than 5,500 times. The archived version can be seen here.

This is not the first time this particular video has gone viral. Last year, AFWA had debunked another claim along with the video, saying a Hindu man was thrashed in West Bengal for hoisting a saffron flag.

What actually happened

The incident took place in Deoria, Uttar Pradesh, in March 2018, following a dispute over money. This was reported in "The Indian Express" on March 31, 2018.

According to the report, the victim, Shamshad, had lent Rs 1,500 to one Nasir. The two had a quarrel over the money, following which Nasir, along with his friends, assaulted Shamshad. Police had arrested six accused in the case.

News agency "ANI" had also reported the incident.

Deoria: Miscreants tied youth to a tree & thrashed him after he asked them for the money lent by him. Video of the incident went viral, Police took cognizance & arrested one accused, say, 'Main accused arrested, 4 others in video have been identified & are absconding.'(28.3) pic.twitter.com/1IjLIm4rtw — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) March 30, 2018

Hence, a two-year-old incident from Uttar Pradesh has been falsely linked to the Covid-19 lockdown with a communal spin