Brazil, while on one hand, is regularly making headlines owing to reporting the second-highest number of deaths in the world due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On the other hand, Brazilian prosecutors have again targeted President Jair Bolsonaro’s son Flavio Bolsonaro and accused him of embezzlement and money laundering.

Amid this, a viral social media video allegedly shows heaps of Brazilian currency in full public display in the middle of a road. It is being said that it is actually the money recovered from corrupt politicians and public servants in Brazil.

advertisement

The caption to one such video uploaded on Twitter reads, “This is not a Building, these are the 4 Billion Dollars that the Brazilian Government has recovered from its corrupt politicians and public servants, the money is displayed in a public place for public viewing. One day we HOPE our Government of India displays such Loot.”

This is not a Building, these are the 4 Billion Dollars that the Brazilian Government has recovered from its corrupt politicians and public servants, the money is displayed in public place for public viewing.

One day we HOPE our Government of India displays such Loot. pic.twitter.com/MUk8eyLib5 — Mini Razdan (@mini_razdan10) September 30, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is misleading. These are fake currency notes displayed as part of a promotional event for a 2017 film - Federal Police: The Law Is for Everyone. The movie, however, was based on a true story of a corruption scandal in Brazil.

Similar claims are also viral on Facebook.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

With the help of the InVid tool and appropriate keywords, we found some images of the piles of notes similar to the one seen in the viral video carried by multiple Portuguese websites in 2017.

According to one such article published on August 29, 2017, the gimmick was part of the promotion of a film - Federal Police: The Law Is for Everyone, that tells the story of Operation Car Wash.

Operation Car Wash is an ongoing and allegedly world's biggest anti-corruption probe by the Federal Police of Brazil that began in 2014.

As per the report, the installation was over four meters in height and simulated the amount recovered during the last three years of Operation Car Wash Four billion Brazilian real.

The installation was placed at Curitiba, capital of the southern Brazilian state of Paraná between August 28 to September 7 in 2017. Curitiba is considered as the heart of the Car Wash investigation.

We also found a YouTube video where Lu­s Antônio Boudens, president of Fenapef, the largest representative entity of the Federal Police of Brazil can be seen speaking in front of the installation.

advertisement

The title of the video uploaded on 29 August 2017 in the Portuguese language translates as, “Expectation at the premiere of the film Federal Police: The Law Is for Everyone”.

The description of the video roughly translates into English as, “Fenapef's president, Lu­s Boudens, is in Curitiba and expects the film to faithfully portray the joint work of federal police, prosecutors and the judiciary. Boudens visited the "mountain of money" placed by the production of the film, which represents 4 billion Brazilian real.”

Thus, we can safely say that the pile of money in the viral video is fake and was rather a promotional activity for a 2017 Brazilian movie.