Amid escalating Israel-Gaza tensions, Turkey has called on the United Nations and Muslim nations to take a clear stance on Gaza.

In this context, a set of three images featuring military vehicles is shared on social media with a claim that the Turkish force coming to Gaza.

The caption to one such set of images, along with a poster in support of Palestine, reads as follows: "Turkish Army on its way to Gaza #FreePalestinian #FreeGaza"

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the images is misleading. While the office of Turkey's president had said that Turkey is engaging in telephone diplomacy in a bid to end the Israel-Gaza conflict, Turkey has so far sent no force to Gaza.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

According to the latest reports by Reuters, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan has called on the United Nations and Muslim countries to act soon against the conflict between Israel and Gaza. The president also said he has discussed the matter with governments or leaders of 19 countries. However, we couldn't find any reports claiming Turkey has sent its military forces to Gaza.

We then did a reverse image search of the three images of military vehicles shared along with the viral post and found that the images are old and not related to the Israel-Gaza conflict.

Image 1

We found the same image carried by multiple media reports in the first week of May 2021 as from Russia.

According to a report published on May 6, 2021 by the Global Times, the images show a rehearsal held on May 4 by the Russian military vehicles for the Victory Day parade in Moscow, Russia. Marking the end of World War II and the victory of the Allied Forces in 1945, every year Russia holds Victory Day parades in various cities on May 9.

Image 2

With the help of the Russian search engine Yandex, we found that the second image in the post, showing a man in uniform posing in front of a fighter jet, was shot in 2020 from a military base in Turkey.

According to reports, the image shows Turkey's Defence Minister Hulusi Akar posing in front of a fighter jet at a military airbase in the western city of Eskisehir, Turkey on September 2, 2020. The image was clicked during a training mission.

Image 3

The third image in the post was found in multiple reports attributed to Reuters. According to these reports, the image shows the Turkish army patrolling in a Kurdish area of southeastern Turkey.

Hence, it is clear that the images shared along with the claim are not related to the Israel-Gaza conflict. Also, there are no credible reports confirming the claim that Turkey is sending its military forces to Gaza.