Former Aam Aadmi Party member Yogendra Yadav had triggered a controversy by tweeting a painting apparently depicting Hindu-Muslim unity during Eid. Now, eminent personalities like Shashi Tharoor, Yadav himself, Uday Bhaskar and William Dalrymple are at loggerheads over it. Sharing of this painting was supposed to highlight communal harmony and inclusiveness of Indian culture, but it has ended up creating bad blood among the Twitterati.

advertisement

In the painting, Krishna can be seen with his bare body and blue complexion along with Balrama at the front, who is pointing towards the sky to a group of men and women behind him. Along with Krishna, a bearded, old man in a robe and a turban can also be seen. A fading crescent moon is also seen. Yadav suggested that it is "Lord Krishna sighting the Eid moon and pointing it out to a group of Muslim men and women". Congress leader Tharoor also shared the same view and tweeted the picture with Eid greetings.

But soon after Yadav and Tharoor posted the picture, they were flooded with queries regarding their source of information many claiming that they have got it all wrong. People insisted that the painting has nothing to do with Eid and the old man in the robe is not at all a Muslim at all. Celebrated author Dalrymple, who wrote White Mughals, contradicted Tharoor and Yadav by retweeting an article to drive home his point.

Under attack from various quarters, Yadav leaned back on Dr Dipankar Deb, who had described the painting being associated with Eid in his book Muslim Devotees of Krishna in 2015 and was quoted in various articles. Deb, associate professor at IITRAM (Institute of Infrastructure Technology Research and Management), Gujarat, and a self-declared Vaishnav practitioner, hardly has any background in history. India Today found that it was only after Deb's book was published, few other people like actor Shabana Azmi picked up the photo and associated it with Eid. Azmi had tweeted the same photo with a similar message last year.

But when we asked Deb about his claims regarding this painting, he failed to provide any authentic source for his information admitting he had never seen the original artwork and had no idea where it is.

One of the most well-known art-historians Padma Shri BN Goswamy, who was quoted by Dalrymple to contradict Yadav and Tharoor's claim, totally brushed aside the claim that the painting has anything to do with Eid moon. Interestingly, even Yadav admits that Goswamy is a "global authority on miniature painting, a scholar without a political agenda".

According to Goswamy, the old man in a jama (Muslim-style robe) and sloping turban is, in fact, Nandthe foster father of Krishna. The most noticeable feature about the robe which establishes it as a Hindu attire is the fact that it is tied under the left armpit. Whereas, Muslims in the Mughal era would always tie the robe under the right arm.

Prof Goswamy also told us about the origin of this painting. According to him, this painting, produced in the second half of the 18th century, is part of a series of many paintings done by decedents of famous Himachali painter Nainsukh and is marked by its unique style. Prof Goswamy said these paintings on the theme of Bhagavata Purana were initially the prized collection of the Kingdom of Tehri, but later on got scattered and many went missing. Prof Goswamy said that other pictures of the same series are available in which Nand can clearly be seen with Krishna in the similar attire. We looked and could really find some other paintings like this.

Some confusion regarding the picture being associated with Eid was also because of a reference to noted historian Harbans Mukhia. Several people on social media referred to Mukhia endorsing the view that the painting is indeed associated with Eid on the basis of a tweet by his son and senior journalist Sudeep Mukhia. Harbans Mukhia refused to be dragged into the controversy when India Today spoke to him, but his son clarified that he tweeted the Eid message along with the picture and the name of his father as was forwarded to him by somebody. Sudeep admitted, I have not checked with my father regarding the painting and he has nothing to do with my tweet.