A short video of Badruddin Ajmal is going viral on social media in which the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) chief is purportedly saying that they will turn India into an Islamic nation and no Hindu will be left here if they come to power. AIUDF is part of the Congress-led UPA alliance for the upcoming elections in Assam.

Several Twitter and Facebook users have posted the 36-second clip where Ajmal is heard saying in Bengali, “The Mughals have ruled this country for 800 years. This country will turn into an Islamic state. Inshallah, UPA and our grand alliance will rule one day and then your party AIUDF, the lock and key symbol, will have a share in it not a single Hindu would have lived in India, would have converted everyone to Muslim”

advertisement If AIUDF alliance comes to power, then there will be no Hindu left in India. Statement made @AIUDFOfficial chief Badaruddin Ajmal. @INCIndia any comments on it or you have the same aim too? pic.twitter.com/h0Rx5tkx5I — Pranjeet Hazarika (@Pranjeethz) March 9, 2021

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral clip is edited. Ajmal actually said Mughals ruled India for 800 years but never wanted to make it an Islamic nation. Had they wanted, they could have converted every Hindu in India. Ajmal has given controversial statements earlier too.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here, here and here.

What did Ajmal say?

We found that the 36-second viral clip has several cuts in between Ajmal’s speech. With the help of InVID and reverse image search, we found the longer version of the speech on YouTube. A YouTube channel called “SANIDUL VLOGS” posted a 21-minute video of Ajmal’s speech on April 17, 2019. The title says that this was Ajmal’s speech at Barpeta during the Lok Sabha election campaign.

At 5.45 minutes into the speech, Ajmal speaks about the Mughal rule in India. In this uncut version of the speech, he is heard saying, “You know Mughals ruled India for 800 years but never thought of making this country an Islamic nation. If they would have thought so, in 800 years, not a single Hindu would have lived here; everyone would have converted. Did it happen? British ruled for 200 years and they also never dared to make India a Christian country.”

Ajmal was actually targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and powerful Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma in his speech. In the video, he goes on to say that since Independence, Congress leaders never aspired to make India a Hindu country. He then asks PM Modi not to have that “dream” either.

Calling the vial clip “doctored”, AIUDF has demanded action against the perpetrators.

Ajmal, however, has given several controversial statements in the past. During the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, he had said that Allah would not forgive him if he or his candidates facilitated a BJP victory. He was responding to media queries of an understanding with the Congress.

However, the viral video in which he is allegedly saying that Hindus will be wiped out if they come to power in Assam is morphed.