An emotional video is being circulated on social media with the claim that due to the ongoing lockdown in Kashmir, a 90-year-old man has not been able to bury the body of his son for two days.

The video shows an old man trying to remove dust from a lifeless body and talking to someone. Sad music can also be heard in the background of the video.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The viral video is from Idlib city in northwestern Syria.

Facebook user Farhan Uddin Owaisi shared this misleading claim on September 3. Since then, the post has been shared more than 8,200 times and the video has received around one lakh views. The post is also doing the rounds on Twitter.

In the comment section of the video, one user pointed out that the post is misleading and the video is from Syria. AFWA reverse searched the video on Google and found the viral clip in a YouTube video uploaded on August 27, 2019.

The description below the YouTube video says, "A 90-year-old #father bids farewell to his second son after a #Russian airstrike on Kafranbel city in the southern countryside of #Idlib."

With the help of related keywords, we found some pictures in a tweet similar to the viral video. As per the tweet, the old man's name is Konbor Albayosh and his son was killed in bombings in Kafr Nabl city of Syria.

This old man, Konbor Albayosh, lived long to see three of his sons killed by Assad bombing. Today he lost his third son in Kafranbel.



What human rights are left? pic.twitter.com/99PuQByRja @Mr.Alhamdo (@Mr_Alhamdo) August 27, 2019

Upon reverse searching these images, we found some news reports in Arabic language, related to the viral video. These reports also carry the same information that the old man in the video is a Syrian citizen who lost his third son in bomb attacks in Syria.

The official Twitter account of Syria Civil Defence also tweeted about this incident. As per the translation of the tweet, this incident took place on August 27, 2019.

advertisement

There are many reports related to the ongoing civil war in Syria. A recent report by Al Jazeera says Russian-backed government forces are reportedly responsible for killing many people in Idlib city. As per the report, "A growing number of children are among the civilian victims of air attacks by Syrian or Russian aircraft in an offensive to take the province of Idlib from opposition forces."

From the above pieces of evidence, it is clear that a video from Syria is being passed off as if its from Kashmir.