A picture of a baby in life jacket and surrounded by people has gone viral on social media with the claim that the toddler has survived the Indonesia plane crash.

A Sriwijaya Air Boeing 737-500 that left Jakarta with 62 people on board vanished from the radar on its way to Borneo on January 9. Rescue teams have found parts of the aircraft and human remains from the sea.

advertisement

In the meantime, several Facebook users have posted the picture of the baby with the caption, "Breaking News #Allah hu akbar, one baby survived in Jakarta Indonesia plane crash.."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the baby was a survivor from a boat that sank off Indonesia's Selayar island on July 3, 2018. The fate of 62 people aboard the plane that crashed off the Jakarta coast remains unknown till the time of filing this article.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

Story of the baby

Using reverse search, we found that the image of the baby is available on the Internet since 2018.

We found that the same picture went viral in 2018 falsely linking it to another airplane crash the same year - a Lion Air flight JT 610 that crashed in the Java sea in Indonesia with 189 passengers on board.

At that time, the media reported that the Indonesian government had ruled out the viral claim, calling it a hoax.

Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, Indonesia's disaster mitigation agency spokesman, had said on Twitter that the baby was a survivor from a boat that sank in the waters off Indonesia's Selayar island on July 3, 2018, and it has no link with the Lion Air flight JT 610 crash.

Banyak postingan foto di media sosial bahwa ada bayi penumpang pesawat JT-610 yang selamat. Foto bayi ini adalah bayi yang selamat dari tenggelamnya kapal KM Lestari Maju, di Perairan Selayar, pada Selasa 3/7/2018. Jadi info tersebut adalah Hoax. Jangan menyebarkan hoax. pic.twitter.com/SziiS6Uoog — Sutopo Purwo Nugroho (@Sutopo_PN) October 30, 2018

With the help of keyword search, we found that an Indonesian news website had published an article on several boat mishaps along with the viral image of the baby on July 7, 2018.

The caption of the picture translates to, "A 3-year-old toddler managed to survive thanks to his mother's embrace. In the KM Lestari Maju accident, an unidentified toddler was also found. Photo: Special / Mongabay Indonesia".

Hence, it is confirmed that the viral image of the baby is not of any plane crash survivor. The toddler had survived a boat capsize in 2018.