Australian cricket team booked its place in the finals after defeating the Pakistan team by five wickets in the second semi-final match of the ongoing Twenty20 World Cup. Australian batter Matthew Wade played crucial innings in this match.

After the match, several users shared a clip of a man in the Australian cricket team jersey shouting “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” from the stands. It is being claimed that he was none other than Matthew Wade celebrating the win over Pakistan.

WHAT’S THE VIDEO?

The same video is also viral on Facebook.

FACT CHECK

At first glance, it can be noted that the jersey of the Australian cricket team used in the match is different from the one the man sporting in the viral clip.

In addition, the viral clip bears the logo – “World Cricket Fans”.

Taking the clues from it, we looked out for the original video using keywords. We found the same video posted by World Cricket Fans on their YouTube and Twitter accounts back in January 2021.

In the video shared on 20 January 2021 from the World Cricket Fans account, they wrote that the man seen in the video was an Australian fan.

“While it’s raining at the Gabba, you don’t want to miss this Australian Fan chanting Bharat Mata ki Jai,” reads the description.

The video was taken during the 4th Test match between India and Australia. India had beaten Australia by three wickets at The Gabba on 18 January 2021.

“A video showing an Australian fan, wearing the Australian limited-overs jersey, leading the chants and slogans. In a video, the fan can be seen leading the sloganeering with the Indians following him in unison,” reported the Yahoo sports via Latestly at the time.

World Cricket Fan is an aggregator of cricket fans’ videos. They regularly share videos related the cricket.

We also found that World Cricket Fan credited the video in point to Dr. Ashutosh Misra. According to Dr. Misra’s Twitter bio, he is CEO of the Institute for Australia India Engagement.

He also shared the original video he recorded on the ground. You can see he had tagged World Cricket Fan (@CricFansWorld) in his tweet from where they picket the viral video.

CONCLUSION

An old video of an Australian cricket fan shouting “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” at the Gabba stadium is being shared with a misleading claim that Matthew Wade hailed for India after defeating Pakistan in the semi-final of the Twenty20 World Cup.