Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi has remained critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s demonetisation drive since its announcement on November 8, 2016. Recently, however, a few netizens claimed that the opposition leader praised the move as well.

A video has gone viral on social media that claims that the Congress leader lauded demonetisation in a rally. In that video, Rahul can be seen saying in Hindi, “Jo vyekti note bandi jaisa kaam kar sakta hai Aap kisi bhi yuva se puch lo, note bandi se fayda hua ya nuksan. Aath saal ke bacche ko puch lo, beta note bandi se fayda hua ya nuksan, wo kahega fayda hua.”

advertisement

This roughly translates to, “A person who can do something like demonetisation You can ask any youth if the note ban was useful. Ask an eight-year-old if the note ban did good or not, and they will say that it was beneficial.”

While sharing this clip, a Facebook user claimed that Rahul Gandhi now declared that the demonetisation drive was beneficial. Another user claimed, “Here is our star campaigner. See how he works faithfully for our party.”

The archived version of similar claims can be found here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found these claims to be misleading. The viral video has been edited. At the rally in question, Rahul Gandhi experienced a slip of the tongue while speaking, following which, he immediately corrected himself. That part has been edited out.

AFWA Probe

The word “Yuva Akrosh” is visible on the stage where Rahul Gandhi was speaking. With the help of this keyword, we searched and came across a video from which the viral clip was snipped out.

The official YouTube channel of the Indian National Congress shared this video on January 28, 2020. This rally, per the video’s title, took place in Jaipur, Rajasthan. At the 34:21 mark, that part appears from which the viral clip has been clipped.

Here, Gandhi can be heard saying exactly what was seen in the viral clip. However, when referring to the eight-year-old, he says, “Aath saal ke bacche ko puch lo, beta note bandi se fayda hua ya nuksan, wo kahega fayda hua. [Correcting himself] Nuksan hua. Fayda kaha hua; nuksan hua.” This translates to, “It caused losses. Where was the gain? It led to losses.”

This faux pas made the news as well. We found a Patrika report that states Gandhi made such mistakes twice during the Jaipur rally, and that he corrected himself within moments.

Therefore, it can be concluded that the viral video claiming that Rahul Gandhi praised demonetisation is misleading, and not true.

(With Inputs from Riddhish Dutta in Kolkata)