A priest was killed by beheading in Bettiah, Bihar. The incident is being heavily criticized on social media. People are sharing this incident and connecting it with the return of Jungle Raj in Bihar. People allege that Jungle Raj started as soon as RJD returns to power in Bihar. Actually West Champaran (Bettiah) of Bihar A priest was murdered on Wednesday morning in Bakulhar village of the district. The torso of the priest was in the temple, while his neck was found in the two-kilometre Kali temple.

Some social media users are giving a communal angle to the matter. He is adding a Muslim angle to it. A user named Ashok Kumar wrote – “The general public perception in the country about the new pro-Muslim Bihar government is that now atrocities and violence against Hindus will increase in Bihar, which has started – the journalist murder in Jamui and The priest’s throat was slit in Bettiah.”

(4) Ashok Kumar on Twitter: “नई मुस्लिम परस्त बिहार सरकार के विषय में देश में आम जन धारणा यह है- कि अब बिहार में हिंदुओं के ऊपर जुल्म और सितम बढ़ेंगे, जिसकी शुरुआत हो चुकी है-जमुई में पत्रकार की हत्या और बेतिया में पुजारी का गला काटा।” / Twitter

At the same time, another user wrote the post – “The news is from Bettiah in Bihar, brutal murder of a priest sleeping in the temple, head found 2 km away. Sometime back 5 MLAs of AIMIM also joined RJD. Muslims know what they have voted for. Hindu is crying for employment, inflation and petrol. #Bihar #MGB”

(4) Dr. Exactily on Twitter: “खबर बिहार के बेतिया से है, मंदिर में सोए हुए पुजारी का सिर काट कर बेरहम हत्या, सिर 2 किलो मीटर दूर मिला। कुछ समय पहले AIMIM के ५ MLA भी RJD में शामिल हुए थे। मुस्लिम जानते हैं की उन्होंने किस लिए वोट दिया है। हिंदू रोजगार, महंगाई और पेट्रोल का रोना रो रहा है। #Bihar #MGB” / Twitter

At the same time, many other users are posting this murder by linking it to the ‘Sar Tan Se Judha’ case.

Fact Check:

To investigate the communal and Muslim angle in this viral news, we did some keyword searches on Google. We got a report from etvbharat.com. It is mentioned in the report that the name of the killer of the priest is Akshay lal Kumar who is arrested by the police. He is a psycho person.

]According to the SP, the criminal told that he found an angel with a white beard and cloth late at night and gave him a bag, and ordered that to behead the priest and should take its head to Goddess Kali and offer it to her.

After which Psycho Akshay Lal entered the temple late at night and brutally murdered the sleeping priest after beheading he came out of the temple, then took a bath and went to the field and also sacrificed a ghost. After this, he, reached Kali temple 2 km away with the head of the priest and offered prayers at the temple.

बेतिया में पुजारी का सिर धड़ से अलग करने वाले ने जो बताया उसे सुन पुलिस भी हैरान (etvbharat.com)

Conclusion:

It is clear from our fact check that there is no communal angle in the murder of a Hindu priest in Bettiah. The man who killed the priest is a psycho person named Akshaylal Kumar. Hence the claim of social media users is false.

Claim- Muslim angle in killing of Hindu priest in Bettiah, Bihar

Claimant- Social media users

Fact Check – Fake