Most of us have heard stories of Gustave, the infamous man-eating croc found in the marshlands of Africa. The monster-size reptile gained notoriety for evading capture even after killing an estimated 300 humans.

And now, a picture of a massive crocodile is circulating on social media with the claim that this is Gustave, which had made the banks of Lake Tanganyika its hunting ground. The picture drew attention because of the seemingly gigantic size of the crocodile compared to the people sitting behind it.

advertisement



India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture is not of Gustave, but another crocodile killed by a Zimbabwean hunter for feeding on cows. The crocodile looks bigger in the picture due to optical illusion. Gustave, on the other hand, has survived several attempts to capture it.

Gustave, the monster croc

Several hunters, including Frenchman Patrice Faye who enlisted locals to aid him, have tried to capture Gustave, dead or alive, over the years. All these attempts have failed.

International websites such as BBC and National Geographic have written pieces on Gustave. The Hollywood flick Primeval was also based on the croc.



Since Gustave was never captured or killed, its length or weight could not be measured accurately. But based on eyewitness accounts, the estimated length would be around 20 feet and weight nearly a tonne. Reports say it has killed over 300 humans.

The crocodile in viral pic



As reported by international fact-check website Snopes, the viral picture was shot by Steve Curle, who worked with rural Zimbabwean communities and national parks, assisting with problem animal control (PAC).

The reptile was killing fully grown cows and had turned out to be a problem for locals. Finally, it was shot along the Zimbabwe-Mozambique border. Though circumstances did not allow for a measurement, the Snopes article cited some publications that estimated the crocodile to be 15-16 feet long.

But why does the crocodile look so disproportionate in the viral picture?

It is due to forced perspective (a particular camera angle) that the reptile’s size seems enhanced in the picture. The people were probably seated a few feet behind and the croc was closer to the camera. Forced perspective (https://onextrapixel.com/40-examples-of-forced-perspective-photography/) is a technique that employs optical illusion to make an object appear farther or closer, bigger or smaller than it actually is.

Largest crocodile in the world

The largest crocodile presently in captivity is Cassius, which measures 17 feet and 11 inches. It was captured in 1987 in northern Australia.

However, the largest crocodile to ever be in captivity was Lolong.



As per Guinness World Records, this saltwater crocodile was 20 feet and 3 inches long. It was captured alive in the Philippines in 2011 but died two years later.