A viral photo on social media shows the Burj Khalifa in Dubai displaying the image of Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, noted Indian philosopher and reformer, and founder of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU).

The claim along with the photo says it is a tribute by the UAE government to Sir Syed Ahmad Khan.



India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the viral image to be photoshopped. The original photo does not show any image being displayed on the Burj Khalifa, the tallest skyscraper in the world with a height of over 2,700 feet and a popular tourist destination.

advertisement

Among many, Facebook user Abdul Quadir shared the viral photo and captioned it, "A tribute to social reformer Sir Syed Ahmad Khan by UAE Government. This depicts the power of the vision."



AFWA probe



A simple Google reverse image search revealed the reality of the viral photograph. We also thoroughly scanned the internet but could not find any media report regarding the tribute to Sir Syed Ahmad Khan by the UAE government.



We also checked the Twitter handle of Burj Khalifa but could not find any post related to Sir Syed Ahmad Khan. However, on the occasion of the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Burj Khalifa was lit up with his image and of the Indian national flag.

-. #_



In a gentle way, you can shake the world.- Gandhi. #BurjKhalifa lighting up in memory of Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary pic.twitter.com/JJFRiXv9pH Burj Khalifa (@BurjKhalifa) October 2, 2019





India Today tried to get in touch with the public relations team of Burj Khalifa, ASDA’A Burson-Marsteller. The story will be updated after their response.

Sir Syed Ahmad Khan was an Indian philosopher and scholar of 19th century British India. He founded AMU in 1857 in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh.

It is to be noted that on October 17, AMU celebrated the 202nd Sir Syed Day on the birth anniversary of its founder. The AMU alumni in the UAE also celebrate Sir Syed Day every year.

But the viral image of Burj Khalifa displaying an image of Sir Syed Ahmad Khan is photoshopped.

Update: In its response, the Burj Khalifa team confirmed to India Today TV that the viral image is photoshopped and LED projections are not possible in the daylight.