Fake news with fatal consequences -- as many as 29 people have been lynched in a year over rumours of child abductions on WhatsApp.

India Today's Viral Test team has examined this dangerous trend and discovered five commonalities that render rumours viral on the messaging platform. Here goes our report:

How Fake Messages Spread

Largely via WhatsApp groups. It's no overstatement to call them the fountainhead of misinformation and disinformation with disastrous fallout.

advertisement

Most people, psychologists say, believe messages regarding child kidnapping when circulated on groups of parents and schools.

In Gujarat, for instance, an audio clip of a woman warning about a gang of female child thieves went in circulation on smartphones.

No one knew who the speaker was but its impact was dreadful.

On June 26 in Ahmedabad, a mob attacked four women in an auto-rickshaw. One of them died and three others were critically injured.

Facebook posts are the second biggest source of WhatsApp rumours, some of which are posted with a usual -- but feeble -- "forwarded-as-received" disclaimer.

Some Facebookers add their own alarmist captions, such as "beware of kidnappers" or "child lifters on the prowl".

Local portals also lend credibility to WhatsApp rumours.

At Dhule in Maharashtra, where five people were lynched on Sunday, local news portal MediaLive running on Facebook had posted a video clip preceding the attack.

This footage contained a graphical representation of child abductions in neighbouring Sakri.

Loaded with dramatic music, the video also warned about burqa-clad kidnappers roaming around.

Police are now investigating about the clip posted by MediaLive.

No such incident was reported from Sakri as claimed in the footage. But it did cost five lives on Sunday.

Content of WhatsApp rumours

Mostly videos, stills or grabs from CCTV footage. Gory videos are also common.

Accompanying texts issue scary warnings about fictitious thugs, such as "groups of people roaming around" "outsiders who speak a different language", "part of a kidney gang" and so forth.

The texts name specific locations -- towns or cities -- which make them look authentic and local.

People tend to believe messages which carry visual/CCTV elements.

The most widely-used videos for circulating false alarms ironically originate from an anti-kidnapping campaign in Pakistan.

This footage was shot by an NGO to raise awareness about child abductions in Karachi.

But vested interests sliced it to project it as a real incident kidnapping for mass circulation on WhatsApp.

Just type "beware of child lifters" on Facebook and you'll find many such videos popping up.

All it takes is to cut a clip somewhere in the middle to play dangerous mischief.

Why Fake News Is Circulated Without Verification

Truth could be just a Google search away, but why don't people try it?

"That's because people have preset notions and when they come across something confirming their notions, they tend to believe," says Delhi-based psychiatrist Shwetank Bansal.

If there is any statement by some prominent personality or a news report in the mainstream media that supports general belief, it's then likely to add fuel to the fire.

According to newspaper reports, when a kidnapped boy was found dead in Tripura on June 26, state education minister Ratan Lal Nath visited the bereaved family and said "the kidney was taken out of the body after making a round cut."

Nath also linked the incident to "kidney smugglers with international connection".

Just two days later, a mob lynched Sukanto Chakraborty, who was hired by the Tripura government to bust rumours about child kidnappers.

While sharing statements of prominent personalities, people presume doing a social service by spreading awareness on an important issue.

They hardly realize that they may end up doing just the opposite.

Who Are The Likely Victims

Strangers. If you look closely at the people who became hapless victims of lynching, a few things become clear.

advertisement

People who look different from the locals, are of different ethnicity, speak a different language or dialect and dress differently are targeted by lynch mobs.

Small groups of three to five people, as opposed to a single person, are mostly looked upon as suspects in areas where rumours are rife.

In Assam, two friends, Nilotpal Das and Abhijeet Nath, were lynched by the locals when they had gone to see a waterfall at Kangthilangso in Karbi Anglong district, dominated by the Karbi tribe.

According to police, they might have been targeted as they had long hair, were moving in an SUV and spoke a different dialect.

A gory video that surfaced after their killing show they kept on pleading till the end but failed to convince the crowd that they were Assamese.

Who Concocts Rumours, Why

Two kinds of people, explains Jayanti Dutta, a psychiatrist training the Delhi police.

"There are people who draw pathological gratification from making such messages and see they being widely shared and discussed about.

"They get a kick when they see that the messages created by them are gaining thousands of hits on social media," the psychiatrist adds.

advertisement

The syndrome is referred to as "pseudo grandiosity". They are least bothered about the consequences or about the likely victims.

The second type of people who are behind these false messages are those who do it for political or social motives.

They are keen to push their ideology through such messages or may want to target a particular community or ethnicity through such rumours.

That is why such messages carry graphic details on numerous occasions.

Mostly they use fake social media profiles to create morphed videos and images so that they cannot be tracked.