On February 21, the great-grandson of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar, Rajratna Ambedkar, did a Facebook Live from Australia's Brisbane in which he claimed that while Brahmins in India consider cow a deity, those in Australia are slaughtering cows and selling beef under the brand 'Brahman Pies'.

In a 6-minute-32-second video, Ambedkar can be seen with a friend outside an outlet of a food franchisee called 'Brahman Pies'. In the video, he claimed that 'Brahman Pies' sells many non-vegetarian food items, including beef, and is owned by Brahmins in Australia. The caption in Hindi along with the video translates to, "Cow is India's mother, but look who's consuming it in Australia?"

advertisement

The video is being shared like wildfire on social media. Till the filing of this story, the video has been viewed more than 48 lakh times, shared over 1.28 lakh times and liked by 66,000 users. The archived version can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim misleading. 'Brahman Pies' has nothing to do with the Indian caste Brahmins, which is also spelt differently. It is a 100 per cent Australian-owned company, which indeed sells beef-related food items, but the name 'Brahman Pies' comes after a cattle breed called 'Brahman' and not the caste Brahmin.

Twitter handle "Political Kida" also pointed out the same through a video which carries an official statement by the 'Brahman Pies' team on the viral video.

Are Brahmins selling Beef in Australia under Brand 'Brahman Pies'?



FB user Rajratna's claim has over 103k share- https://t.co/n8XXSDHVOP



Fake News- Brahman Is A Cattle Breed, nothing to do with Indian caste Brahmins. pic.twitter.com/xhiyEi66ka Political Kida (@PoliticalKida) February 23, 2020

In a Facebook post, Brahman Pies clarified that the company is 100% Australian-owned and has nothing to do with the Indian caste Brahmin. It also says that the shops were named after Brahman cattle that can be found on cattle properties all across Australia.

As per the post, the owner of the video never contacted 'Brahman Pies' for clarification on the name of the company.

What is 'Brahman' in Brahman Pies?

'Brahman Pies' sells various food items prepared using beef from the cattle breed 'Brahman'. According to the Australian Brahman Breeders' Association Limited, the Brahman breed originated in the United States in the early 1900s where it was developed from progeny of four Indian cattle breeds with some infusion of British-bred cattle.

Initial evolvement of the Australian Brahman began in Queensland. Today, the breed influence covers Australia with cattle exports to many overseas countries.

Some credible websites also say that Brahman breed is a sacred cattle of India and many Hindus will not eat meat from them, will not permit them to be slaughtered, and will not sell them.

advertisement

Upon searching for the owner's name of 'Brahman Pies', Google says one Ken Brouwer is running the company. However, to authenticate the same, we also contacted the 'Brahman Pies' team. The response will be updated in the story once received. AFWA also tried to contact Rajratna Ambedkar, but his response too is awaited.

However, we could neither ascertain nor did we investigate whether 'Brahmins' in Australia are involved in cow slaughtering or selling beef. Our investigation is solely focused on the particular Australian company 'Brahman Pies', whose brand name has nothing to do with the Indian caste 'Brahmin', but is associated with a cattle breed called 'Brahman'.