According to a message doing the rounds on social media, author of the well-known book Satanic Verses Salman Rushdie has said that the only goal of Muslims in the world, whether they live in India or Pakistan, is to destroy nations by terrorism in the name of Islam.

The image of the viral message along with Rushdie's photo has been posted by several users on Twitter and Facebook.

advertisement

The message reads, "Muslims, whether they live in Pakistan or India, Nigeria or Syria, whether they are poor or rich, illiterate or educated, their only goal is to destroy the whole nation by terrorism, bomb blasts, population explosion, riots and jihad in the name of Islam" - Salman Rushdie.

India Today Anti-Fake News War room found that the viral message has been falsely attributed to Salman Rushdie. Calling it "fake", the author has requested Twitter to take action against the people who are circulating it.

The archived version of the posts are saved here and here.

AFWA probe

Reacting to a user on Twitter, who has posted this viral message attributing it to the author, Rushdie appealed to the social networking site to take action and take down the tweet, calling it "fake".

This is a fake tweet, which seems to be circulating. I have never said anything of this sort. @Twitter @jack please note and take this down. https://t.co/1lmg6ISg3f — Salman Rushdie (@SalmanRushdie) August 6, 2020

With the help of TinEye reverse image search, we found that this viral message falsely attributing to Rushdie is circulating on the internet since 2014.

In 2015, Salman Rushdie while replying to a Twitter handle @LucyGoesHard, thanked her because as per the author, she seemed to have found the original source of this "fake quote". Rushdie wrote, "Thank you for finding the source of this fake quote that people can't seem to stop quoting to justify their own bigotry."

.@LucyGoesHard Thank you for finding the source of this fake quote that people can't seem to stop quoting to justify their own bigotry. — Salman Rushdie (@SalmanRushdie) March 7, 2015

We could not find any credible source that justifies or has in the past reported that the author has ever made a statement like this against the Muslims.

Hence, the viral message with the anti-Muslim quote attributing it to Salman Rushdie is false and misleading.