Veteran actor Rishi Kapoor passed away on Thursday morning at the age of 67 after a long battle with cancer, leaving his fans grief-stricken. A few hours after his death, a video of a man singing next to Kapoor started circulating on social media.

In the video, the actor is seen lying on a hospital bed, as the man next to him sings “Tere dard se dil aabaad raha” from Kapoor’s hit movie “Deewana”. The actor later blesses the man. Netizens started claiming that this was the last video of the actor from the Mumbai hospital he was admitted in.

advertisement Clip of last night, with doctors at the Reliance Foundation Hospital, Mumbai. You are a Legend Rishiji you will always be in our hearts and mind pic.twitter.com/g1Tj01JbgW — Nagma (@nagma_morarji) April 30, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video is almost three months old. The video was shot in the first week of February when Kapoor was admitted at Max hospital in Delhi’s Saket.

Twitter user “Nagma” shared the video on Thursday with the caption, “Clip of last night, with doctors at the Reliance Foundation Hospital, Mumbai. You are a Legend Rishiji you will always be in our hearts and mind”. The archived version can be seen here.

Many prominent media houses such as “The Times of India”, “Amar Ujala” and “AajTak” had also initially reported it as the actor’s last video. Most of them later corrected the story.

AFWA investigation

On closer observation, we found that the man singing in the video is wearing a woolen sweater. Since the temperature in Mumbai has already crossed 30 degrees, so this could only be an older video.

Taking this as lead, we ran a reverse search on one of the frames from the viral video and found that it was uploaded on YouTube by “DHEERAJ KUMAR SANU” on February 3, 2020. This person had also shared a selfie with the “Bobby” actor in the same clothes on Facebook on February 4. He himself can be seen singing in the viral video.

India Today contacted Dheeraj who confirmed that he had shot the video on February 1 or 2 (tentatively) when Kapoor was admitted to Max hospital in Saket. Dheeraj is a ward boy in the hospital. He hails from Ranikhet in Uttarakhand and is presently staying in Delhi’s Mehrauli area.

advertisement

Max hospital has also confirmed to India Today that Kapoor was admitted there in the first week of February. We also found some media reports published on February 2, saying that the actor was hospitalised due to an infection.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral video was not shot in Mumbai’s Reliance Foundation Hospital a night before the actor died. It was shot in the first week of February when he was admitted in hospital in Delhi. Also, the person singing in the video is not a doctor as claimed, but a ward boy.