Surajkund Police confirmed to Fact Crescendo that this incident does not related to mass cow slaughter. It shows improper disposal of dead bodies of several animals in the forest. A case has been registered against the ones spreading misinformation.

A video showing carcasses of dead animals lying in a forest is widely circulating on social media claiming to show dead carcasses of cow who have been slaughtered and skinned for leather in Uttar Pradesh.

The caption of the video states, “Hindus are killing cows for its skin in UP,”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Youtube that led us to the same video published on 24 January 2022 with the caption mentioning that millions of cows are being slaughter in Faridabad, Haryana. According to the description, “lakhs of cows were brutally murdered on top of mountain in Pali village of Faridabad district of Haryana state.”

The person can be heard saying that the administration are conspiring with criminals who are killing cows and skinning them. He shows around the place, filled with carcasses of cattle. He urges every viewer to share the video as much as possible so that it can reach UP CM Yogi Adityanath and PM Narendra Modi, as he does not trust the Haryana government. When we searched for news reports on the issue, we found the following report published by The Tribune. The Tribune reports that according to Haryana Police, a contractor, who was appointed to dispose the carcasses of stray animals dumped them on the top of a mountain in Surajkund. Some people made a video out of this and spread it on social media platforms with a false narrative. A case has been registered against four, including an unidentified person running a YouTube channel called “Amazing Farming”.

Read the report here- Tribune | Archived Link

A case has also been registered against the contractor. The people arrested for spreading fake news have been booked under IPC 153A and 295A. Next, Fact Crescendo contacted the Surajkund Police Station in Faridabad, Haryana. Surajkund Police Station SHO Inspector Sohan Pal told us that, “No one killed these animals for skinning. The animals died naturally and the contractor who was supposed to take care of these dead bodies dumped the bodies on top of the hill. A case has been registered against him. A case has been registered against those who made this video on social media and spread falsehood. He further added that the bodies did not only belong to cows but also other stray animals that died a natural death or accidents.”

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with viral video on social media to be False. The video is not from Uttar Pradesh but from Surajkund in Haryana. The video does not show an incident of mass cow slaughter but shows improper disposal of animal dead bodies in the forest. The contractor responsible for disposing the bodies of stray animals left unattended on roadside had dumped them on the top of a hill.

(If you also have any suspicious messages, posts, photos, videos or news, send them to our WhatsApp Fact line Number (9049053770) for Fact Check. Follow Fact Crescendo on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to read the latest Fact Check.)