Amid the protests and controversies over the BJP's Nupur Sharma's remarks on Prophet Muhammad, a video has gone viral on social media where a man is seen threatening the Muslim community while firing a rifle.

In the video (abusive language, viewers' discretion advised), a man in a red t-shirt is heard threatening to kill Muslims and abusing the Prophet. Later, he fires three rounds into the air. This clip was shared by many social media users with a caption that read, "Modi’s Hindus are now posting their promise to kill Muslims on social media with total impunity."

advertisement

CJ Werleman, correspondent of the Byline Times, shared this video quoting the same caption.

Archived versions of such posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the posts to be misleading as the video is more than 2-years-old and is unrelated to the ongoing row. The man was arrested after the video went viral.

AFWA Probe

A reverse search of the screenshots from the viral clip led us to some older tweets of the same video. Abdul Shaik, a Twitter user, had posted a screengrab of the same video on April 26, 2020.

It was the screenshot of a Facebook post from March 1, 2020. We ran the keywords of the caption on Facebook and found the same video was shared by many users between March 2020 and April 2020.

After going through the comment section of such a video, we came across a newspaper cutting posted by a user named Malik Ansari. It was reported that the man in question was arrested for spreading provocative and abusive speech on social media.

Who is this man?

Using advanced Google search, we found multiple news stories from March 2020 about the incident. Articles from ETV Bharat, News18, and Hindustan confirmed that Yogendra Singh Chauhan was arrested in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh on March 1, 2020, by the Thakurgunj police.

According to these reports, police recovered two air pistols and two air guns from Chauhan. A mobile phone was also seized from him.

Seeking more details on Chauhan, we reached out to Hari Shankar, the SHO of Thakurgunj Police Station. While talking to AFWA he said, "This video is more than two years old. He was granted bail four months after his arrest. Chauhan went back to his native village, Sitapur and has been living there since then."

Therefore, it is safe to conclude that the video going viral on social media claiming to be recent was shot in 2020. Also, the man got arrested following this incident.