An image of a burning plane is circulating on social media with the claim that a United States military aircraft has crashed in Afghanistan, killing and injuring hundreds of civilians and soldiers.

“A US military C 130 plane has crashed in Farah province killing and injuring hundreds of people and soldiers. The plane was en route from Kabul airport to Qatar,” reads one such caption along with the picture.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found no such news published by any credible media organisation recently. This is a 13-year-old picture that shows controlled detonation of a damaged US aircraft at an air base in Iraq.

Tracing the viral image

Using reverse image search, we found the viral picture on the website of Alamy, with credits to Tech. Sgt. Jeffrey Allen. The picture was taken on July 7, 2008.

The caption on Alamy says, “Explosive Ordinance Disposal personnel from the 447th Expeditionary Civil Engineer Squadron at Sather Air Base, Iraq, detonate explosives to detach the wings from the body of a C-130 Hercules here July 7. The EOD team is using a series of controlled detonations designed to divide the airplane into smaller pieces so it can be easily moved. The C-130 made an emergency landing in a field north of Baghdad International Airport shortly after take-off June 27.”

We found similar pictures and reports on the incident on the website of US Air Force. The website also gave credit to Tech. Sgt. Jeffrey Allen for the pictures. These were published on July 11, 2008.

As per this website, Airmen used explosives to dismantle a C-130 Hercules stuck in a barren field northeast of Baghdad International Airport on July 7.

“The transport aircraft has been there since June 27, when its crew was forced to perform an emergency landing. The aircraft was deemed a security concern and it was decided that it would be easier to transport if it were dismantled,” says the report.

Farah is one of the 34 provinces of Afghanistan, located in the southwestern part of the country. There are no such reports of a plane crash in Afghanistan recently by credible media groups.

Hence, it can be concluded that a 13-year-old picture of controlled detonation of a US plane in Iraq has been used to make a false claim that an American military aircraft has crashed in Afghanistan, killing and injuring hundreds.