An outrageous post is doing rounds on social media with a claim that China has sought its highest court's approval to kill 20,000 coronavirus patients.

Investigating the authenticity of the unbelievable claim, we found that they originated from an article published in a little-known website called ab-tc.com.

The article says that China has sought its highest court's permission to kill 20,000 coronavirus infected people.

advertisement

The headline reads: China seeks court's approval to kill over 20,000 coronavirus patients to avoid further spread of the virus.

The article went on to claim that "Supreme People's Court is expected to give an approval on Friday for the mass killing of coronavirus patients in China as sure means of controlling the spread of the deadly virus".

Here's the archived version of the post.

Facebook user Chandrabhal Singh has posted a screenshot of the article by ab-tc.com and has made a claim in Hindi which in English read, "China has sought court's permission to shoot 20,000 coronavirus patients. There is speculation that China has already killed some patients."

Facebook user sharing the claim

India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be completely false as it is based on a report of a rather suspicious website.

Many social media users seem to have believed this news. Netizens have posted the same claim on Facebook and Twitter, attributing the information to ab-tc.com.

We ran a Google keyword search to verify the claim. We couldn't find any reliable source to confirm the news. Since the novel coronavirus outbreak is constantly making headlines across the world, it is impossible for global media to miss such a big development.

According to the latest news reports published on February 6, senior officials in China have been told to round up all infected residents for mass quarantine camps. At the time of writing this article, China Global Television Network (CGTN), the state-backed broadcaster, more than 630 people have died and over 31,000 are infected. None of the media outlets have mentioned about any move to kill infected people.

We searched for related news on the Chinese Supreme Court's website but couldn't find anything. We also found that they have published many fake news articles in the past. It had published false news about the death of celebrity couple Connie Ferguson and Shona Ferguson. It had also published doctored tweets of US President Donald Trump. It proves that they have a history of publishing fake news.

advertisement

We also searched the domain details of ab-tc.com and found that except for the name of the province, it didn't mention anything such as office address, city name, email ID, etc, which is unusual for a reliable news website. Though the website is based in Guandong, China, its content is mostly about developments in the US. So, it is clear that the content of the website, in this case, is quite unreliable and suspicious.

Screenshot of website's domain details

Fact-checking website Snopes has also debunked the article's claim.

Hence, the claim that China wants to kill 20,000 coronavirus patients is totally false.