A link of a purported ‘Google Pay’ website is being shared on social media claiming that Google Pay was offering rewards up to 1999 upon scratching a reward card displayed on this website. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Claim: A purported website of Google Pay alluring cash rewards up to 1999 rupees. Fact: The website link shared in the post is a fraudulent one. After scratching the reward card, when you click the blue button provided on this website, it will direct you to the Google Pay application on your mobile and ask you to pay the reward amount to an unknown bank account. Google Pay or any other digital wallets will not ask their customers to pay money or enter a UPI pin for accepting money or receiving cash rewards. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

This purported online website link shared by multiple users on social media is not the official website link of ‘Google Pay’. Google Pay did not announce any such rewards on its official website. Google Pay is a digital wallet and online payment platform that enables users to make in-person contactless payments using mobile phones, in-store, and on supported websites, tablets and watches. The UPI transactions on Google Pay are completely online. Google Pay does not ask their customers to collect cash rewards physically in their banks.

Upon scratching the reward card displayed on this purported ‘Google Pay’ website, we could see a reward amount revealed inside this scratch card. After scratching the reward card, when you click the ‘CLAIM YOUR REWARD IN BANK’ button provided on this website, it will direct you to the ‘Google Pay’ application on your mobile and ask you to pay the same reward money displayed in the scratch card to an unknown bank account.

Google Pay or any other digital wallets will not ask their customers to pay money or enter a UPI pin for accepting money or for receiving cash rewards. Describing the scam of these purported websites of Google Pay, a few bloggers published videos on their Facebook pages in 2020. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be concluded that the purported Google Pay website alluring rewards up to 1999 is a fraudulent one. Also, ‘Google Pay’ official Twitter handle has also responded to a few tweets that described these fraudulent websites.

Thanks for reaching out! Here's something that might help if you’re a possible victim of fraud ➡️ https://t.co/hpMISRuwat. Appreciate it. – Saira — Google Pay India (@GooglePayIndia) July 15, 2022

To sum it up, this purported Google Pay website link alluring cash rewards up to 1999 is a fraudulent one.