Spread the truth:

A set of video and few photos showing people blacking names and words in Hindi on signboards is viral claimed as a next step of protest by farmers after damaging Jio towers.

A video shows a man blacking Hindi on a banner. Text viral with the video

“असली चेहरा अब सामने आ रहा है। टॉवर तोड़ने के बाद अब पंजाब में हिंदी नही चलेगी। किसान आन्दोलन बहाना है हिन्दू और हिन्दू विरोध असली मकसद है। ये ही है,किसान आंदोलन की हकीकत? ये खालिस्तानी आंदोलन है, किसानों के भेष में आतंकी,उनके समर्थक है। उनका एजेंडा,अराजकता फैलाना और थ्रेड “

असली चेहरा अब सामने आ रहा है। टॉवर तोड़ने के बाद अब पंजाब में हिंदी नही चलेगी। किसान आन्दोलन बहाना है हिन्दू और हिन्दू विरोध असली मकसद है। ये ही है,किसान आंदोलन की हकीकत?

ये खालिस्तानी आंदोलन है, किसानों के भेष में आतंकी,उनके समर्थक है। उनका एजेंडा,अराजकता फैलाना और

थ्रेड

👇 pic.twitter.com/U5HRiTBURq — श्रीष त्रिपाठी 🇮🇳 (@Shrish_1987) January 9, 2021

A set of images showing people blacking Green Road signboards is also viral claiming the same

Truth

These photos and the video were shot much before this farmer protest started.

The viral video was taken in Sep 2020, a protest against imposition of Hindi language nationwide.

The set of photos is three years old.

Punjabi to be on top, National Highway signboards being amended

The public works department (buildings and roads) has started amending the signboards along the Bathinda-Faridkot national highway to have Punjabi on the top.

The recent protests by some organisations over relegating Punjabi to number three on signboards, behind Hindi and English, have made the state government act promptly. The public works department (buildings and roads) has started amending the signboards along the Bathinda-Faridkot national highway to have Punjabi on the top. The department started the work to restore the primacy of Punjabi language on the signboards along the national highways following instructions from the state government. “The chief engineer in-charge of national highways has been asked to complete the work at the earliest,” Hussan Lal, secretary, PWD (B&R), told Hindustan Times. There had been angry protests by activists of the Dal Khalsa, Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari), Malwa Youth Federation and other organisations in the past few weeks against the alleged “disrespect” shown to Punjabi by bringing it to the bottom on signboards.” Source: Hindustan TImes

Related