An image of a Pakistani politician, Fazl ur Rehman, purported to show that he was served alcohol while traveling in an aircraft is morphed.

The image shows Rehman in a business-class seat with a bottle of Jack Daniel's, a whiskey brand and glass kept on a side table beside him. BOOM found that the image has been doctored to include the alcohol bottle and glass on the table. Rehman is the chief of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam Fazl (JUI-F), a Sunni Deobandi political party in Pakistan. In 2019, JUI-F led a massive protest "Azadi March" against Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan's policies.

Several Indian netizens have taken a dig at the Pakistani politician for consuming alcohol during a flight journey.

The morphed image is doing the rounds on Facebook and Twitter with the caption: Maulana Sahab is utilising the money of Zakat properly, along with it, the signs of a muse are also seen (in red circle)!" (Original text in Hindi: जकात के पैसों का सही इस्तेमाल कर रहे है मौलाना साहब, साथ में हूर के निशानात भी (लाल घेरे में) नजर आ रहे हैं.) Click here to see the post and here for an archived link.

Viral on Twitter

Several Twitter users have also shared the image with a similar claim. One such tweet reads, "But alcohol is forbidden in Islam?? Putting zakat's money to good use". (Original texts in Hindi: "मगर इस्लाम में तो शराब हराम हैं.?? जकात के पैसों का सही इस्तेमाल कर रहे हैं??")

The tweet is archived here. Zakat is a form of monetary donation that is given voluntarily by followers of Islam for charitable and religious purposes. It is one of the Five Pillars of Islam. BOOM also received a tweet in its tipline for verification.

Also Read: 2016 Video Of Ink Attack On BJP MP Falsely Linked To Farmer Protests



Fact Check BOOM was able to ascertain that the image has been morphed. We ran a reverse image search and found a Facebook post which was shared on August 15, 2019 by a Pakistani Facebook page named Jamiat Talba Islam. In the original image Rehman is seen without an alcohol bottle and glass; and can be seen resting his elbow on an empty table top. Below is a screenshot of the Facebook post.