BJP supporters are visibly upbeat after exit poll results predicted a second Modi government. Amid posts in support of BJP and deriding Opposition parties, many social media users have shared a video claiming that people in the UK are cheering after watching the exit poll results. Some others claim the video to be related to the US stock market.

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found this to be absolutely false. This is an edited video shared by a photoshop artist just for fun. The original video is of England fans celebrating during a football match shown on a giant screen in Ashton Gate stadium in 2016.

advertisement

Facebook user Shashank Parab posted this video with the caption, These are Indians, not BJP supporters watching Exit Poll 2019 at London. Love the spirits of them and their Love for Loving India.

Several other Facebook users such as Bengal With NaMo and Bharat Chheda have also shared the video with almost the same claim.

The video is also doing the rounds in several WhatsApp groups with the claim that this is the reaction of the USA stock market after the Indian exit poll results are out.

In this short 15-second video clip, news anchor Rajdeep Sardesai can be seen on a giant screen with India Today-Axis My India exit poll data, while people are cheering in jubilation. @Atheist_Krishna is written at the right-hand upper corner of the viral video.

Atheist_Krishna is quite a popular photoshop artist on social media who uses his creativity just for humour. He posted this video on May 19 on Twitter with caption BJP supporters watching #ExitPoll2019.



Ashton Gate stadium in Bristol, United Kingdom, has a giant pub screen where football lovers enjoy matches and cheer for their favourite teams.

Looking closely at the viral clip, one can easily make out that the exit poll video has been placed on the Ashton Gate giant screen.

India Today AFWA team had earlier filed a similar fact check story where the same Ashton Gate video was morphed and replaced by a viral video of Wing Commander Abhinandan with a false narrative.

Also read: Fact Check: Old protest images shared as photos of Bengal violence

Also read: Fact Check: Did Arun Jaitley use navy chopper to ferry his family in Goa?