A post circulating on social media claims that 200 policemen in Delhi have tendered mass resignation in solidarity with the protesting farmers. This comes after clashes between farmers and police on Republic Day and between protesters and locals at Singhu border two days back. Farmers have been demonstrating along Delhi's borders for over two months now demanding a repeal of three farm laws.

advertisement

"200 policemen in Delhi have given collective resignation in support of farmers. The party has just begun," says one such tweet in Hindi.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. Delhi Police has confirmed to India Today that there has been no mass resignation among its ranks.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, here, here and here.

AFWA probe

A mass resignation in Delhi Police, that too in support of the ongoing farmers' agitation, would have definitely made headlines. However, we could not find any credible media report substantiating the claim.

For better clarity, India Today reached out to Anil Mittal, a Delhi Police public relations officer. Rubbishing the viral claim, Mittal said there has been no such collective step by Delhi Police personnel.

"The social media claim is false. There has been no mass resignation in Delhi Police in support of farmers. Our personnel who were injured during the Republic Day violence are still recuperating in different hospitals," Mittal said.

The Press Information Bureau has also confirmed the viral claim to be false.

Meanwhile, on January 30, the Delhi Police Mahasangh, along with family members of personnel injured in the January 26 clashes, staged a demonstration against the violence. They were joined by retired as well as serving Delhi Police personnel.

Delhi Police on January 29 had served notices to 12 farmers' leaders to join the investigation into the Republic Day violence. Therefore, it is clear that the post claiming 200 Delhi Police personnel resigned in solidarity with the protesting farmers is untrue.