While voters cast their vote in the last phase of Lok Sabha elections on Sunday, an image of a bust of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose smeared with black ink is being shared on social media. The claim attached to the post says that Trinamool Congress (TMC) goons have done this to the bust situated near the house of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate and Netaji's grandson Chandra Kumar Bose.

advertisement

CK Bose is contesting the Lok Sabha election from Kolkata South constituency as a BJP candidate.

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the incident is two years old and had taken place in Panchra village in Birbhum district of West Bengal. Bose lives in Kolkata and has no home in Birbhum.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Among others, a Facebook user had posted the image with the caption: "BJP pratyashi aur Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose ke potey Chandra Bose ke ghar ke paas bane Netaji ki murti par TMC ke gundo ne kalikh pot di. Ab had paar kar gai Mamata Banerjee [TMC goons smeared a bust of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose with ink, which was situated near the house of BJP candidate and grandson of Netaji, Chandra Bose. Mamata Banerjee has crossed all limits]."

There is a board visible in the viral image on which Tathya Mitra Kendra, Digital Seva, Common Services Centre is written in Bengali script. On reverse search we found that the incident happened on August 15, 2017, in Birbhum district of West Bengal.

According to media reports, the statue of Netaji, installed in the compound of the Panchra panchayat, was to be unveiled on the eve of Independence Day function. When the staff opened the gate, they found the statue disfigured. CK Bose had slammed Mamata and accused TMC goons for the act.

Many prominent media houses covered the incident. However, none of the media reports said those arrested were affiliated to any political party.

India Today reached out to CK Bose and he said: I have no house in Birbhum district. I am born and brought up in Kolkata. He had filed a complaint accusing Trinamool Congress but there is no confirmation on whether there was any involvement of TMC. The distance between Kolkata and Panchra is around 180 km.