A viral message claiming that the deceased Chinese COVID-19 whistleblower Dr. Li Wenliang found that coffee was a potential cure for COVID-19 is fake. BOOM could not find any evidence supporting both the claims, that the doctor left behind documents citing a cure and that coffee has COVID-19 curing abilities.

Dr. Li Wenliang was the whistleblower of COVID-19 who was apprehended by the Chinese government for raising the alarm on COVID-19 and who later died due to the virus. The message claims that he found that certain chemicals such as methylxanthine, theobromine and theophylline are found to act against the SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19 and these are found in coffee.

The message also claims that patients were given coffee in hospitals which led to their recovery in Wuhan in China, the epicenter of the COVID-19 outbreak.

BOOM has previously debunked a similar message which replaced coffee with green tea as the concoction that was provided to the COVID-19 patients.

Below is a screenshot of the message that BOOM received on its WhatsApp requesting for its verification.





Below are a few posts seen on Facebook.

The post has been in circulation since March.

Fact Check

Dr. Li Wenliang who was the whistleblower of the virus was apprehended and put into prison after he raised his voice about the emergence of a new virus in China. He lost his life to Coronavirus in February but there is no evidence stating that he discovered a cure for COVID-19.

The three compounds Methylxanthine, Theobromine, Theophylline are found in caffeine and coffee. They have their own scientific properties but have not been scientifically or microbiologically proven to impact the coronavirus.

Caffeine, the main element in coffee is a type of methylxanthine and helps in good airway control but has not been seen to affect viral infections. This concoction is also known to reduce drowsiness and fatigue but high consumption could also lead to headache and tremors.

Previously, the same claim has circulated with green tea as the concoction found in India which is made from the three elements and being given to patients in Wuhan. This claim was circulating with claims about other types of teas curing COVID-19. BOOM had previously debunked this claim.

The same message claiming that these compounds are found in green tea which is a cure for COVID-19

Also Read: False: Different Types Of Tea Can Act As A Cure For COVID-19



The World Health Organization (WHO) has not found a treatment or a cure for COVID-19 so far. Vaccines are at different stages of clinical trials while the WHO is conducting a Solidarity Trial to asess the effect of plasma therapy, remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, and anti- HIV drugs lopinavir and ritonavir on SARS-CoV-2.



There have been many theories on the way the virus orginated, spread, and its prevention and treatment. BOOM has been actively debunking claims surrounding the virus since January 2020.

Also Read: Fake News In The Time Of Coronavirus: A BOOM Study