A video of soldiers thrashing some men is circulating on social media with the claim that the incident is from India where Muslims are being dragged out of their houses and beaten up by the Indian Army.

The clip shows men in military uniform whipping and kicking a couple of men as officers stand by giving instructions.

Several Facebook users have posted the video with a caption in Hindi which translates to, “RSS has fully captured India. Muslims are being dragged out of their houses and beaten.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is of Pakistani Army interrogating and assaulting suspected Taliban sympathisers. The video had surfaced on social media in 2009 and led to criticism against the Pakistani Army.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here, here and here.

AFWA probe

We found that in 2019, some YouTube users had uploaded the video with the claim that this was Indian Army thrashing Kashmiri Muslims.

With the help of InVID, we sliced up the video into keyframes, and after running a reverse search on each frame, found news reports on the incident. In 2011, several news websites had used the video, saying this was Pakistani soldiers interrogating members of the “Taliban”.

Digging deeper, we found that the video had surfaced on social media in 2009. As per “BBC News”, “Pakistani soldiers are seen apparently abusing Taliban suspects” in the video. The Pakistani Army had said they were examining the video as this was a serious accusation.

It was not clear where the video was shot, but it was probably somewhere in the Swat region. As per some news articles, the Pakistan human rights commission had received numerous reports of extrajudicial killings and reprisals by security forces in Swat Valley after the army took control of the area from Taliban.

Therefore, it is confirmed that the viral video has no connection with India and it was brutality by Pakistani Army against suspected Taliban sympathisers.

READ | Fact Check: Video of Delhi cop being assaulted goes viral as atrocities by Bengal BJP workers

READ | Fact Check: Picture of man injured in Mewat violence passed off as atrocities on Hindus in Bengal