Spread the truth:

A Video of a scuffle between foreigners wearing saffron clothes and police is viral claiming West Bengal Police beat up ISKCON Members just for selling Bhagwad Geeta

👆👆👆Violent attack on ISKCON members by West Bengal Police. Their crime was they were selling Bhagwad Geeta.

Truth

A discussion on Reditt 6 years ago i.e. 2013 claimed this as Russians signing Hare Rama Hare Krishna in Mapusa, Goa

”

Eight Russians arrested for clash with police.

Religious chants by a group of Russian members of the Hare Ram Hare Krishna sect near the Mapusa police station took a violent turn on Tuesday, when the Russians clashed with the police and ended up getting assaulted by the public. Two policemen were injured in the clashes and the eight Russians have been arrested on charges of rioting and assaulting cops.

According to Mapusa police, a group of Russians dressed in saffron attire were seen marching along the main streets of Mapusa chanting Hare Ram, Hare Krishna, equipped with dholak (drum) and a harmonium.

Irritated by the singing and consequent traffic congestion that resulted along the main road opposite municipal market, some citizens informed the police about the nuisance.

A police team led by PSI Tulshidas Dhavaskar and Head Constable Ramesh Kalangutkar rushed to the site and requested the revelers to stop their activity.

However, the revelers paid little heed to the police and continued with their activity. Finding himself on the defensive, PSI Dhavaskar requisitioned additional police force, following which about four constables were rushed to take stock of the situation.

The police team stopped the march at the taxi stand and asked the group to come to the police station. As the policemen were trying to take the members of the group to the police station, the group members allegedly began assaulting the cops. Police Constables Sushant Chopdekar and Prabhakar Porob sustained injuries in the scuffle.

On noticing the cops being at the receiving end of the group, general public intervened and thrashed the foreigners before handing them over to the police.

While police managed to arrest eight members of the group, others fled away from the site. Those arrested include Egoloboi Bable, Eugene Cathrina, Ekolo Valanko, Alexander Valanko, Costancio Roma, Terence Tubo, Gory Gorbelo and Andre Adito.

All the eight accused have been booked under Sections 143, 145, 147 149 and 353 IPC. PSI Tulshidas Dhavaskar is investigating the case.”

Herald Goa reported the following in 2008

Related