Just ahead of the Punjab polls, a controversial letter allegedly issued by the banned pro-Khalistan group Sikhs For Justice (SGJ) has taken social media by storm. Several people shared the letter that claimed Sikhs For Justice supported the Aam Admi Party in assembly elections. Punjab will vote in a single phase on February 20.

The letter in the Punjabi language broadly translates to, "Sikhs For Justice announces its decision to support the Aam Admi Party in the Punjab elections. The 2022 elections are significant for Punjab as well as for our organisation because if the AAP comes to power in Punjab, we will get a new hope to strengthen and accomplish our mission."

advertisement

"We request you to support the AAP in the elections so that we become stronger," it further said. Towards the end of the letter, the name and alleged signature of Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, the Executive Director of Sikhs For Justice, can be seen.

Sikhs for Justice was formed in 2007. It is a US-based separatist group. Pannun, a law graduate from Panjab University, is the face of the SFJ. He was among the nine individuals designated as "terrorists" by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs in 2020 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.

Several verified social media handles shared this letter and accused the AAP of being a Sikhs For Justice ally, thereby implying that the Arvind Kejriwal-led party is pro-Khalistan.

Dr. Anirban Ganguly, the director of Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee Research Foundation shared a photo of this letter and wrote on social media, "#AAP is now the official/certified political wing of #Khalistan! Break India, fragment India, pull-back India is its official policy! Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) extends support to #Khalistani_Kejriwal #AAP4Khalistan."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) got in touch with both, the AAP and the SFJ to get to the bottom of this. Spokespersons for both claimed the letter was forged.

AAP versus Kumar Vishwas

While this allegation about the forged letter was making the rounds, former AAP member Kumar Vishvas added fuel to the fire in a recent ANI interview. In the interview, Kumar Vishwas alleged that in a conversation with him a long time ago, Kejriwal had said he wanted to grab power in Punjab at any cost even if it meant going soft on the Khalistan agenda. AFWA has not been able to independently verify if the alleged conversion between Kejriwal and Kumar Vishwas took place.

In response, AAP supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal called the allegations laughable and said that the other contesting parties - the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Congress party, and the Shiromani Akali Dal - had launched a joint attack against the AAP, as they were afraid of the support that AAP had garnered in Punjab.

Pannun calls letter fake but makes other serious allegations against AAP

We contacted SFJ chief Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, who told us that the group certainly did not issue the letter in question. Pannun sent us a video of himself, where he declared the letter fake. He, however, alleged that he received calls from AAP sympathisers after the letter went viral. But he did not identify the persons who made the calls.

advertisement

Pannun told us that after he had issued an online clarification on the authenticity of the letter, he received two phone calls. Both allegedly came from AAP sympathisers. As per Pannun, in the first phone call, he was advised to stay quiet on the letter issue and was even offered an undisclosed sum of money for doing so. However, in the second phone call, he was threatened with dire consequences if he continued to speak on the issue.

He sent us another clarification video and a letter that can be seen below. Pannun said in the second video that he did not support any political party in the Punjab elections.

Pannun also sent us a letter detailing his bribery and threat allegations against the AAP. AFWA, however, can't vouch for the authenticity of the allegations as he didn't name the persons who made the alleged calls. He did not share recordings of the calls either.

advertisement

AAP emphasises no association with SFJ

We sent a screenshot of the viral letter to an AAP spokesperson who said under the condition of anonymity that it was fake. He added, "There is absolutely no association between Aam Admi Party and Sikhs For Justice. It has become clear that all opponents have joined hands to jointly launch an attack against us."

He also said that all allegations made by the SFJ chief against the AAP were baseless and that nobody from the party had called Pannun about the letter

Thus, while the SFJ's allegations against the AAP could not be verified, both, the party and the pro-Khalistan group, confirmed that the letter was forged.

(With inputs from Yash Mittal)