The Indian government on March 26 announced a relief package worth Rs 1.7 lakh crore to help the poor affected by the Covid-19 outbreak. Now, a website, "rsby.org", is claiming that the Centre will provide financial aid of Rs 50,000 to ration card holders under a scheme called 'Rashtriya Shikshit Berojgar Yojana'.

The website claims it is a pilot project started by the Indian government along with the World Bank to help the country's poor tackle the financial crisis arising out of the coronavirus pandemic. It says the scheme is only for the first 40,000 applicants and the money will be transferred online. The website also sought personal details for registration and a fee of Rs 250 as 'account verification charge'.

advertisement

The central government, however, has not launched any such scheme. The Press Information Bureau (PIB) has clarified the same and asked people to be wary of such fraudulent websites that ask for one's personal information and money. The website is not active now.

Claim: Govt has started a scheme named Rashtriya Sikshit Berojgar Yojana to provide relief package of Rs 50000 to all ration card holders#PIBFactCheck: No such scheme has been launched by Govt of India. Beware of such fake and fraudulent sites collecting your personal info/fees pic.twitter.com/RTawkuzmDK — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) May 2, 2020

Posts regarding the scheme are viral on social media.

About the website

At first glance, the website looks authentic as it is properly designed, has the Ashoka Pillar logo on the home page and also shows sections such as 'RTI', 'Notification' and 'About Us'.

Through "Domain Tools", India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the website was created on December 18, 2019, and registered with "GoDaddy.com".

We also tried to contact the website via the chat option. When asked about the authenticity of the Rashtriya Shikshit Berojgar Yojana, the person on the other side replied that the notice will be updated on the website soon. However, the website was made inactive after the PIB alert.

We found that the Indian government has a similar website called "rsby.gov.in", but this is an official website for providing health insurance to the poor. This scheme is called 'Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna'.

Conclusion

Such fraudulent websites are generally created to collect personal information from gullible persons and then do a scam. AFWA had reported about such fake websites before.