Since 20 Oct, 2021 , a banner is viral on Facebook and Twitter with the claim that in Uttarakhand, some people are selling land in the name of religion. On the banner, it is written that

“ लालपुर (रुद्रपुर) में पहली बार मुस्लिम कॉलोनी

आसान मासिक किस्तों में प्लॉट उपलब्ध

५० वर्ग गज का प्लॉट मात्र १,५०,००० में”

On translation, it means “First time Muslim colony in Lalpur (Rudrapur) ,Plots available in easy monthly installments, 50 square yard plot in just 1,50,000 ”

This news was even covered by news websites, OpIndia and Dainik Jagaran ,in which it is written the pamphlets of Muslim- Colony being made by Alaska Residency” are being distributed in Bilaspur & Baheri regions of Uttar Pradesh.

Fact Check:

Our team started research from the image of the banner ,which is making rounds on social media

Image of banner making rounds on social media

Some contact information was given on this banner, including company name, contact number and address. Our team started verification of all these details

Company Name on Banner: Alaska Residency

Contact Number given on banner: 9012090022 , 7983566615

Contact Address Given on Banner : Hotel Corbett Inn, Near Janta Inter Collage, Rudrapur (U.S. Nagar) Uttarakhand

1) Verifying Contact Numbers given on Banner

Contact numbers were searched using true caller app and one of our team members had a conversation with them, the voice recordings are embedded below:

Mobile Number: 9012090022 Mobile Number: 7983566615

Description of Number on True caller App Description of Number on True caller App

Conversation with 9012090022

It can be heard through the person’s voice that he is disturbed by these calls and want to clarify that he does not work for “Alaska Residency” and he don’t know about any plots being cut in the name of “Muslim Colony”. He even mentioned someone journalist added this number in the advertisement. Conversation with 7983566615 It can be heard through the person’s voice that he is disturbed by these calls and want to clarify that he does not work for “Alaska Residency” and he don’t know about any plots being cut in the name of “Muslim Colony”.

2) Verifying the address given on Banner:

On contacting the staff of Hotel Corbett Inn, Rudrapur, Uttarakhand as is the address given on banner, it was found that this office was present here few years back, but not now.

Conversation with the staff of Hotel Corbett Inn, Rudrapur, Uttarakhand

3) Verifying Social media sites in the name of “Alaska Residency”

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/alaskaresidencyrudrapur Twitter: https://twitter.com/AlaskaResidency Created on: 19 May 2015 Only 8 Posts, that too on the same date of creation Created on: 9 July 2015 Only 1 post and that too on the creation of twitter account. Inactive account Inactive account Details of Social media sites of “Alaska Residency”

From the Facebook page, we got contact details of Alaska Residency, where the link to their website and a contact number was available.

Website: http://www.alaskaresidency.in/ Contact Number: 7055005313

Website page shows error Contact Number has been reported spam 47 times

4) Verifying the name of the company

On researching about the company, Alaska Residency on Ministry of Corporate Affairs Portal, it was found that the company is registered since, 30 December 2015 and is active. The director of Alaska Residency is “Satpal Yadav”

Details of Company

Details of Director of Alaska Residency

From here, we got the registered email id: [email protected] of this company. Our team had sent a query on this mail but waiting for the reply.

Our team even tried to contact the Rudrapur, Uttarakhand Police Station. One of our team members had a conversation with the SHO, he said that no such “Muslim Colony” is being made in Rudrapur. If anything, such would have happened, we must be informed about it. He also added that such fake news is common on Facebook and Twitter.

Conversation with SHO, Rudrapur, Uttarakhand

From the above analysis it can be said that this is the work of some miscreants who want to boil the issue just to create religious hatred. Beware of such misleading banners which have been made only in the name of religion to create nuisance in different states. Since, the contact details mentioned in the advertisement are incorrect, it makes it clear that this banner was only used to raise religious issues and nothing else.