Netizens have discovered a unique connection between Grammy-winning pop star Shakira and music maestro Bhupen Hazarika. An audio of a song has gone viral on social media which claims it to be Shakira’s rendition of Paul Robeson’s Ol’ Man River’ and Hazarika’s 'Ganga Behti Ho Kyun'.

India Today TV Fact Check found that the claim is totally false. The voice in the audio is not of Colombian singer Shakira but of Purabi Mukhopadhyay, an acclaimed Bengali singer.

advertisement

The nearly 10-minute video has been shared on all the three platforms -- YouTube, Facebook and WhatsApp. A Facebook user Bangkim Munu Rabha along with several other people shared it on their Facebook pages. Hardly even realising this as a misleading post many went ahead to praise Shakira’s Hindi pronunciation.

Screenshot: Facebook

The video with the still images of Shakira and Hazarika and the song played in the background has been viewed by more than 2.5 lakh people on YouTube.

One Facebook user, Rahul Raha, has posted his apology on the same video for the wrong claim and wrote that both the songs -- 'Ol’ Man River' and 'Ganga Behti Ho Kyun' -- in the video have been sung not by the Colombian star but by Bengali singer Purabi Mukhopadhyay.

We found from several newspaper reports that Purabi Mukhopadhyay, an acclaimed Rabindra Sangeet singer from West Bengal, died in 2017.

Before her death the same year, she gave an interview to The Times of India, where she expressed her concern over this false claim that went viral regarding her rendition of Hazarika’s song 'Ganga Behti Ho Kyun'. In the interview, she claimed that she recorded this song in 1999 and sang this number several times with Hazarika.

Bharat Ratna awardee Hazarika was inspired by American artiste Paul Robeson’s song 'Ol’ Man River' and composed his megahit 'Bistirno Parore' first in Assamese and later in Hindi (Ganga Behti Ho Kyun) and Bengali.

The lyrics of this immensely popular song 'Ganga Behti Ho Kyun' was written in Hindi by another stalwart poet and literary figure Pandit Narendra Sharma whose death anniversary is on February 12. The poet's death anniversary could be the reason why this old viral claim has been circulated again on social media, especially on WhatsApp.