A video is being shared on social media claiming it as visuals of a Muslim woman kidnapping a boy in India. The video shows a burqa-clad woman pricking a pin on a boy’s shoulder and abducting him after he becomes unconscious. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

Claim: Video of a burqa-clad woman kidnapping a boy in India. Fact: The video shared in the post shows a scripted drama filmed by four teenagers in Egypt. Egypt’s Ministry of Internal Affairs clarified that the video is fake and was created with a motive of achieving high financial return by increasing the viewership on social networking sites. This video does not show a real incident and it had nothing to do with India. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.

On reverse image search of the screenshots in the video, a video with similar visuals was found on the Facebook page of ‘Ashraq News Al Sharq’ news website. This news channel reported it as a scripted video intentionally filmed by four teenagers in Egypt. When we searched for further sources using relevant keywords, we found the details of this video in an article published by the ‘Al Hadath’ news website on 29 June 2022. ‘Al Hadath’ confirmed it as a staged video filmed by four teenagers to attract a high viewership on their social media handles. This scripted video was reportedly filmed on one of the streets in the Girga city of Sohag Governate in Egypt.

The four teenagers who filmed this video and made it viral on social media were arrested by the Egyptian police. On 29 June 2022, the official Facebook handle of the Egypt’s Ministry of Interior released a video issuing a clarification regarding this fake video circulating on social media. The Egypt’s Ministry of Interior mentioned it as a fabricated video created with the motive of achieving a high financial return by increasing the viewership rate. The video shows one of the accused revealing the circumstances of the circulation of this fake video clip on social networking sites.

Reporting the details of this scripted video, several news websites have published articles. They can be seen here and here. From all these pieces of evidence, it can be confirmed that the video shared in the post shows a staged drama created by a few teenagers in Egypt.

To sum it up, a scripted video filmed by a few teenagers in Egypt is shared as visuals of a burqa-clad woman kidnapping a boy in India.