Has Sambit Patra been removed from the post of national spokesperson of the BJP, following the defeat in recently concluded assembly elections?

This is what a Facebook page "TheViralinIndia" is claiming. India Today Fact Check confirms that the claim is wrong. Sambit Patra continues to be a spokesperson of the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP).

"Sambit Patra ko BJP ke prabakta pad se hataya gaya. Ab mandir kaun banayega? Afshos" ( Sambit Patra has been removed from the post of spokesperson of the BJP. Sad, now who will build the temple?) - This post by "TheViralinIndia", on Facebook has already been viewed by nearly four thousand people and shared by almost 3000 times at the time of filing the story. Hundreds commented on the post believing it to be true.

advertisement

On twitter too, people are discussing and commenting about the "removal" of Sambit Patra.

Many Facebook users who commented on the TheViralinIndia's post, blamed Patra as one of the main reasons for BJP's debacle in the assembly elections earlier this month.

India today checked the office bearers list put out on the BJP's official website (http://www.bjp.org/organisation/office-bearers ) to find the truth. Sambit Patra's name is still present on the official spokesperson's list.

His name is on the seventh position in the list. With the help of Wayback machine we found the archive version of the BJP's office bearers' list for the month of October. It confirms that his name is now dropped from sixth position to seventh, recently.

Former union minister, Rajiv Pratap Rudy was appointed as a BJP national spokesperson by party president Amit Shah on Saturday. Rudy's name figures at the second spot out of the ten spokespersons mentioned in the list.

Sambit Patra was involved in many controversial remark during the election campaign. Election commission ordered filing of an FIR against Patra as Congress accused him of violating the model code of conduct during an election campaign in Bhopal. He was charged for holding a press conference blocking the road without permission.

He was also criticized for allegedly giving a spin to Kamal Nath's statement during the poll. He was at the receiving end on the social media when during a press conference by party president Amit Shah recently called him "Sandeep Patra".

But the viral post on Facebook, claiming Sambit Patra has been removed as spokesperson of BJP, is not correct.