After a nine-month standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced a mutual disengagement between both the troops in the Pangong Tso Lake area in Ladakh on February 11. It mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner.

Following this announcement, the Indian Army on February 16 released images and videos that show Chinese forces vacating from north and south banks of the Pangong Tso Lake with their bunkers, tents, and other facilities.

advertisement

Amid this, a one-minute video is viral on social media with the claim that it shows the Indian Army removing the Chinese bunkers from the banks of Pangong Tso Lake. In the video, two JCBs can be seen picking concrete debris, while some men in uniform, some in orange jackets and helmets monitor the operation.

The caption in Hindi to one such video translates as "We can do whatever we want. We can make do aur do paanch. After the escape of 150 Chinese tanks and about 5,000 Chinese soldiers from Pangong Lake Indian army demolished all Chinese bunkers using JCB."

,

...



,000 ....

....!

#___ #____ pic.twitter.com/mMA5tMk9CH— (@Shrish_1987) February 17, 2021

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the video is misleading. This video is from a search and rescue operation at Raini village in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district. Chamoli witnessed massive flash floods triggered due to glacier burst on February 7, 2021.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, and here.

AFWA PROBE

While according to sources, the disengagement process between India and China in Pangong Tso has been completed, we couldn't find any report on the Indian army removing Chinese Bunkers in the area.

With the help of a reverse image search of relevant keyframes from the video, we found a longer version of the same video uploaded on the YouTube channel of news agency ANI on February 15, 2021.

The title of the video reads, "Chamoli disaster: 56 bodies recovered, rescue operation underway."

According to ANI, the video shows Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel along with National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) carrying out search and rescue operations at Raini village in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on February 15, 2021.

The video was also carried by The Economic Times and India TV on February 15 confirming the video shows the post-flood rescue operation underway in Uttarakhand.

advertisement

The same video was also shared by ITBP on its official Twitter handle.

Visuals of search operations for missing persons at Raini site by ITBP and sister organizations today.#Tapovan #UttarakhandGlacierBurst #Uttarakhand_Disaster #himveers pic.twitter.com/0Lz8PvG31M— ITBP (@ITBP_official) February 15, 2021

Flash floods triggered by a glacier blast was reported in Chamoli in Uttarakhand on February 7. Two power projects were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels. According to the latest reports, rescuers have so far recovered 61 bodies and 28 body part from Chamoli.

AFWA also shared the video in question with India Today's Uttarakhand bureau. Our local correspondent from Chamoli asserted that the video is from the site of the Rishi Ganga Power Project in Raini village of Chamoli. He also confirmed that the men in orange jackets seen in the video belong to the eighth battalion of ITBP.

Hence, it is clear that the video in question is from a post-flood rescue operation carried by Indian Special Forces in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district and not of the Indian Army removing the Chinese troops.