A high-speed train emerges from a tunnel. Adjacent to it, heavy vehicles speed past on busy roads. What appears to be an ordinary sight is made special because of its physical location — underneath a mighty tempestuous river.

This is what the proposed underwater tunnel being built under the Brahmaputra river in Assam is projected to look like, or at least that’s what a viral photo on social media claims.

advertisement

"Underwater road and railway line, this is said to be a 14 km long tunnel built under the Brahmaputra river in Assam. This is the new India," a tweet that carried the photo boasts.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim was misleading. This was a graphical depiction of the Fehmarn Belt Fixed Link or the Fehmarnbelt Tunnel, an immersed tunnel system that will link the German island of Fehmarn with the Danish island of Lolland. The tunnel system is still under construction.

A plan is in place

India’s first underwater road-rail tunnel is set to be built across the Brahmaputra. According to news reports, the Rs 7,000 crore project is the brainchild of the Railway Ministry, the Road Transport Ministry and the Border Road Organisation (BRO). A first of its kind in India, the tunnel will be 9.8 kilometres long and serve both civilian and strategic purposes, a May report in The Federal said.

A Times of India report said the proposed project will contain three parallel tunnels — one for road, another for rail, and the third one for emergency use. It will be constructed using tunnel boring machines and may take in excess of two years to complete.

So, the tunnel project is real. But is the photo that’s being shared showing the same project?

But does it look like this?

A reverse search of the photo returned results in plenty. The website for World Highways magazine used the photo in a June 2017 report on the Fehmarnbelt Tunnel — an underwater tunnel between Denmark and Germany that’s still under work. Built under the European Union’s Trans European Network (TEN-T) programme, the 18 km-long immersed tunnel combined road and rail link connecting the Baltic Sea regions of Germany and Denmark, the report said.

A website called TricksFast also used the same image in a July 2021 article about the Fehmarnbelt Tunnel.

The photo was also used on the first page of a document by an organisation called Tunnel Engineering Consultants (TEC) that called Fehmarnbelt "the world's longest immersed tunnel."

More details of the ambitious project can be seen in the video below.

advertisement

India Today has debunked similar claims before that wrongly attributed European tunnels to upcoming projects from other parts of the world.

Thus, we concluded that while a tunnel system under the Brahmaputra river in Assam has been proposed, the photo shared has nothing to do with it — it is of a European tunnel that’s still under construction.

(With inputs from Adarsh Singh in New Delhi)