The Narendra Modi government has completed construction of the Char Dham expressway, if a viral post on social media is to be believed.

On April 16, Facebook user Raghav Varshney posted a picture of a magnificent four-lane road between a hill and a water body claiming that it is the Char Dham expressway.

India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The place where the picture was taken is actually in Morocco.

advertisement

The archive of the picture can be accessed here.

The translation of the caption attached to the viral post in Hindi said, "This is not Switzerland, this is the four-lane road constructed to connect Uttarakhand 'Char Dham' (four pilgrim spots) in India. True, what has Modi done."

By the time this story was written, it was shared by 1,100 Facebook users and had received around 250 comments.

Screenshot of Raghav Varshney's Facebook post

The picture looks suspicious at first glance itself because there is no sea-like water body near Char Dham. Further, contrary to India, one can also observe traffic on the road moving on the right side.

Using Google's reverse image search, we found a ditto image where 'Gharboui' was printed on its lower left side. We found several Facebook and Twitter users posting this image from Morocco, a country in the northern part of Africa.

Via reverse search, we also found another image on photo stocking website Pinterest, where it was claimed that the photo is from Tangier city in Morocco.

We scanned Tangier city on Google Earth Pro and found a place that looks exactly like the one in the viral post.

Google Earth photo on the left and viral photo on the right

While searching for Tangier city in other sources as well, we came across a similar picture on travel website TripAdvisor.

This picture was posted by a user 'Tangier Trips' this month.

Picture posted on TripAdvisor

The Char Dham expressway project was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2016. The National Green Tribunal gave its approval for the project in 2018. It was also found that construction of the expressway will be of two lanes and not four as claimed in the post.

On the basis of the stated facts, AFWA concludes that the image in question does not belong to Char Dham expressway at all.