A photograph showing CPI(M) leaders Prakash Karat and Brinda Karat, joined by Prannoy Roy and his wife Radhika Roy among others, is going viral on social media. Several users who shared the photograph claimed that two of the men at the table were Supreme Court Judges Justice Surya Kant and Justice JB Pardiwala, who recently rebuked Nupur Sharma during hearing of a plea by the suspended BJP spokesperson in connection with her alleged blasphemous comments. Newschecker found the claim to be untrue.

Screenshot of Facebook post by @mohan.l.bhatnagar.7

Screenshot of Facebook post by @vandematram.bhayia

Screenshot of Tweet by @anilgautam1960

Screenshot of Tweet by @yogeshDharmSena

Links to such posts can be found here, here, here and here.

A Supreme Court bench of Justice Kant and Justice Pardiwala on July 1 rejected Nupur Shrama’s plea seeking transfer of all the FIRs registered against her in connection to remarks on Prophet Mohammad- that led to a series of protests and diplomatic issues- to Delhi. The apex court said, “This lady is single-handedly responsible for what is happening in the country… The outcome of her statement is what happened in Udaipur… the unfortunate killing in Udaipur. Her remarks were extremely disturbing.” and added that Sharma must apologise to the whole nation for her “loose tongue” that ignited strong emotions just to fan an agenda.

Following the judgement, the judges have been heavily criticised on social media platforms. More recently, 15 ex-judges, 77 former bureaucrats and 25 retired officers of the armed forces have criticised the Supreme Court’s comments against Nupur Sharma. In an open letter to Chief Justice of India CV Ramana, they said that the two-judge bench’s observation — that she is “single-handedly responsible for what is happening in the country” — was a “virtual exoneration of the dastardliest beheading at Udaipur”

Also Read: Nupur Sharma Case Judge Justice J.B. Pardiwala Was A Congress MLA? No, Viral Claim Is False

Fact Check/Verification

We looked up the official website of the Supreme Court of India to access the images of Justice Surya Kant and Justice JB Pardiwala. Following this, we compared their images with the viral photograph, but could not spot either Justice Kant or Justice Pardiwala.

On carefully analysing the photograph, we could identify NDTV’s Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy, The Hindu’s N Ram and CPI (M) leader Brinda Karat sitting at the table. Following this, we scanned the Twitter account of Prannoy Roy and found a tweet dated July 6, 2022, carrying an the viral image along with a statement of N Ram clarifying that the two men identified as the Supreme Court judges are in fact Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P Thiaga Rajan and he himself. The photograph was taken at a restaurant in Ketti near Ooty.

N Ram also shared the same post carrying the viral image and his statement on Twitter on July 5, 2022. He wrote, “How idiotic! The calibre of your disinformation is pathetic, beneath contempt.”

How idiotic! The calibre of your disinformation is pathetic, beneath contempt. pic.twitter.com/v6blzH0Cru — N. Ram (@nramind) July 5, 2022

We continued our investigation and found a Facebook post by MindEscapes, dated July 3, 2022, carrying the viral photograph with the caption, “A Chef’s Table session with Finance Minister – Tamil Nadu, Mr. P. Thiagarajan, Dr. Prannoy Roy and Mrs. Radhika Roy, Mrs. Brinda Karat and Mr. Prakash Karat, Mrs. and Mr. N. Ram and Dipali Sikand.”

Screenshot of Facebook post by @experience.mindescapes

Notably, Dipali Sikand is the founder of MindEscapes

The photograph was shared by the club’s Twitter handle with the same caption on the same day.

A Chef's Table session with Finance Minister – Tamil Nadu, Mr. P. Thiagarajan, Dr. Prannoy Roy and Mrs. Radhika Roy, Mrs. Brinda Karat and Mr. Prakash Karat, Mrs. and Mr. N. Ram and Dipali Sikand. #ExperienceMindEscapes #ChefsTable #Nilgiris #GreatMindsMeet pic.twitter.com/pPrBGZh4Ij — MindEscapes® (@MindEscapesClub) July 3, 2022

Conclusion

Viral claim that Supreme Court Judges Justice Surya Kant and Justice JB Pardiwala were dining with NDTV executives and CPI (M) leader is false.

Result: False

Sources

Tweet By @PrannoyRoyNDTV On July 6, 2022

Tweet By @nramind On July 5, 2022

Facebook Post By @experience.mindescapes On July 3, 2022

Self Analysis



If you would like us to fact check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 ​or email us at ​checkthis@newschecker.in​. You can also visit the Contact Us​ page and fill the form.