Nikhat Zareen, a 25-year-old Indian woman boxer, created history by winning a gold medal at the World Boxing Championships. She was 52 kg category, she defeated Thailand’s JitpongMustamus by 5-0.

Meanwhile, a picture of him with Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is going viral on social media. Sharing the picture, it was claimed that KCR gave a reward of Rs 50 lakh to Nikhat Zareen.

A user wrote on Facebook that Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao gave a reward of 50 lakh to Nikhat Zareen, who won a gold medal in boxing.

Fact Check:

To investigate the above claim, we first looked at the news related to the award given to Nikhat Zareen. During this time we received a report of the Deccan Chronicle. The above viral picture can be seen in this report published on August 16, 2014.

The caption was given along with the viral picture that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was giving a cheque of Rs 50 lakh to woman boxer Nikhat Zareen in Hyderabad on Friday.

Also we received a tweet from Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A Revanth Reddy. In which he announced a reward of five lakh rupees to Nikhat Zareen.

On behalf of @INCTelangana

I announce Rs 5 lakh to @nikhat_zareen as a token of appreciation for her commendable achievement. Her journey from Nizamabad to Istanbul will inspire many. I demand @TelanganaCMO to reward her as he did earlier for

PV Sindhu,Saina & Sania Mirza. pic.twitter.com/65YLdGJbMD — Revanth Reddy (@revanth_anumula) May 22, 2022

In a tweet, he wrote, “On behalf of @INCTelangana, I announce Rs 5 lakh as a token of appreciation to @nikhat_zareen for his commendable achievement. His journey from Nizamabad to Istanbul will inspire many. I demand @TelanganaCMO to reward him as he did earlier for PV Sindhu, Saina, and Sania Mirza.

Conclusion:

So, it is clear that Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s claim of giving a reward of Rs 50 lakh to Nikhat Zareen for winning a gold medal at the World Boxing Championships is misleading.

Claim: Telangana CM KCR gives Rs 50 lakh reward to Nikhat Zareen

Claimant: Facebook User

Fact Check: Misleading