As India steps up inoculation against Covid-19, a video of a mob chasing and pelting stones at security personnel is being circulated on social media with the claim that coronavirus testing and vaccination squads were driven out of an Indian village.

One such caption with the video reads, "INDIA: Villagers chase out the testing & vaccination squads. They see through the V-fraud!"

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The incident is from April 23, 2021, when policemen were attacked in Jharkhand's Saraikela for trying to stop a crowded village fair held amid the Covid crisis.

The same video was shared by a website "bitchute.com" with a similar claim. The archived versions can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we did a reverse image search of key frames of the video and found that the same clip was carried in an NDTV report published on April 23.

According to the report, the local administration and police went to stop a crowded fair conducted amid the Covid-19 crisis at Bamni village in Jharkhand's Saraikela. As the officers tried to convince organisers to stop the fair where hundreds of people had already gathered, the negotiation failed, and villagers chased them away with sticks and stones.

The incident was covered by other media houses as well. According to a report by India Today, eight people were arrested following the incident.

AFWA also spoke to Saraikela SP Mohammad Arshi to understand whether there was any attack on healthcare workers and police during vaccination drives in the district.

The SP said, "No such mob attack was reported during Covid testing or vaccination drive in Saraikela. Also, the video in circulation is not related to the vaccination drive. It happened when our officers tried to stop a fair where hundreds of locals had gathered violating Covid protocols. The situation was later brought under control."

India Today's Jharkhand correspondent also confirmed that no case of mob attack on police or healthcare workers on vaccination duty was reported from the state recently.

Hence, it is clear that the video in circulation shows a mob chasing policemen who tried to stop a crowded fair amid the Covid crisis. The crowd was not chasing a Covid testing and vaccination team as is being claimed.