A Facebook user named ‘Sandeep Jaitly’ shared a post on 23 May 2019. The narration in the post as translated from Hindi quoted “Today is an auspicious day. Commit suicide today Mamata Bano. As they say, never delay for a good work.” As per this post’s claim, Mamata Banerjee said that she would commit suicide if Modi gets re-elected. Let us see what the facts are!

NARRATIVE ON SOCIAL MEDIA:

FacebookPost | ArchivedLink

FACT CHECK:

We searched on Google with ‘mamata banerjee says suicide’ key words and we got a post by ‘OutlookIndia’. In this post, it is given that Mamata Banerjee said, “Hitler would have committed suicide seeing Modi’s activities.” To read the entire article, click on the link given below.

OutlookindiaPost | ArchivedLink

‘NDTV’ also covered the same story and stated the same as Outlook. However, nowhere was it mentioned that Mamata Banerjee said she would commit suicide if Modi gets re-elected. To read the entire article, click on the link given below.

NDTVPost | ArchivedLink

While searching we also came across an ‘NDTV’ news, where a retired senior Kolkata Cop blamed Mamata for his death in ‘Suicide Note’. To read the entire article, click on the link given below.



NDTVPost | ArchivedPost

We also searched google with the same key words translated in Bangla and received almost similar narratives like English search. However, we could not find anything related to the claimed statement given by Mamata Banerjee. If the Chief Minister of Kolkata had made such a statement, it would have been available with some media or news channels.

Based on the evidences we can confirm that Mamata Banerjee did not say that she would commit suicide if Modi gets re-elected.

IN CONCLUSION:

Fact Crescendo has fact checked and confirms that the photograph is being share in the post with a wrong narrative. We categorise the story as FALSE.

FactCrescendo advises its readers to refrain from sharing such misleading and communally biased photographs and do a self-check on the true narrative of such incidents before believing them.