As severe cyclonic storm Yaas struck West Bengal and Odisha yesterday, a video of sea waves engulfing a bridge went viral on social media. It is being claimed that the visuals are from a place near Baleshwar in Odisha.

Sharing the video, a Twitter user wrote, “Visuals from near Baleshwar Odisha. #Yaas #yaascycloneupdate #CycloneYaas #Yaas #YaasCyclone #CycloneYaas #CycloneYaasUpdates”. Another similar tweet can be seen below.

advertisement God save odishi & bengali from the #YaasCyclone.pray for them pic.twitter.com/RgZ9xHDjjE — Jay Shankar Jha (@jayshankarjha92) May 26, 2021

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AWFA) has found that the video is four years old and from Lakshadweep.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching keyframes of the viral video, we found the same clipping on the YouTube channel of “Dweepdiary Lakshadweep” dated August 26, 2017. The description says that the video is from Minicoy Island in the Eastern Jetty of Lakshadweep where huge waves struck the sea bridge.

It also says that the video was recorded on August 23, 2017, and though no casualties were reported, some boats were damaged in the Agatti and Chetlat islands of Lakshadweep.

For further confirmation, we reached out to K Bahir, the chief editor of “Dweepdiary Lakshadweep”, an online news portal in the Union territory.

“The video was captured from one of the south-end islands of Lakshadweep named Minicoy. This is nothing unusual. One bad weather day, and heavy waves engulf the Eastern Passenger Jetty on the Arabian Sea. A local suffered minor injuries trying to capture the video,” Bahir said.

We then tracked down the exact location of the Eastern Jetty located on Minicoy Island of Lakshadweep on both Google Maps and Google Earth. The comparison of visuals of the viral video with screenshots of Google Earth can be seen below.

So it is clear that the viral video of sea waves engulfing a bridge is not a recent phenomenon brought about by Yaas. It is four years old and from Lakshadweep. However, it is true that Cyclone Yaas upped sea levels and caused heavy rains and floods in West Bengal and Odisha.

(Inputs by Sonali Khatta)