Several pictures of a man in a blue skirt cradling his unclothed belly painted with flowers have caught the attention of netizens.

Many Facebook users have posted the pictures with the claim that the man is doing a pregnancy photoshoot instead of his wife as she refused and he had already paid the photographer.

Facebook user "Valentin Bosioc" uploaded the pictures on October 12, and his post has already received 1.2 lakh likes and an equal number of shares till this article was filed. The caption says, "Pregnant wife refused the photoshoot, so the husband did it, because he already paid for it".

advertisement

The user mentioned the name of the photographer as Martyn Wilkes.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the pictures to be misleading. The four-year-old images are of a Spanish father who had arranged the photoshoot as a spoof with his photographer friend.

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here and here.

With the help of reverse image search, we found the viral photos in an article by "Daily Mail" in 2017.

As per this article, Francisco Pérez from Málaga in Spain was inspired to stage a maternity photoshoot with his photographer friend Martyn Wilkes. These pictures were shot in 2016. We found the same images on Wilkes' Facebook page. Most of these photos were posted in 2016.

As per the "Daily Mail" article, 51-year-old Pérez, who goes by the nickname Paco, was already a father of two at the time of the photoshoot and he wasn't expecting another child.

But the photographer recently updated the photo album by adding a few more pictures from the same shoot. In the caption, he said his friend is expecting a baby girl, Noelia. India Today then contacted Wilkes, who told us a funny story behind the bizarre photoshoot.

"Some 18 years earlier, he wrote down the name of his daughter on her birth certificate incorrectly due to drinking beer on the route. It was supposed to be Noelia, but he wrote Natalia. To make up to his wife, he agreed to pose for me for the shoot," Wilkes told India Today.

Therefore, it is wrong to say that the photoshoot was arranged because the wife backed out and the man had already paid the photographer.