BJP’s national executive meet was held in Telangana’s capital Hyderabad on July 2-3, 2022. Against this backdrop, a video of police personnel drinking water from mud is being widely shared on social media, claiming that fresh water could not be provided to the staff who arrived at the national executive meet.

The video is shared on Facebook with a caption in the Telugu language: “ఎమిరా మీవల్ల దేశానికి ఉపయోగం..!! బీజేపీ సభలో బందోబస్తుకు వచ్ఛిన సిబ్బందికి మంచినీళ్ళు ఇవ్వలేని పరిస్తితి, తు..మి.. బతుకు చెడ”

(English translation: Emir, the country is useful because of you..!! The situation where drinking water was not given to the staff who came for the bond in BJP meeting. Life is a mess)

Here’s the link to the above post.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the above claim and found it to be MISLEADING.

We did a keyword search, but could not find any credible media report that corroborated the viral claim. Had such an incident happened at BJP’s national executive meet, it would have been covered by the mainstream media.

Using the InVid Tool, we extracted keyframes from the viral video and performed a Reverse Image Search. This directed us to the verified YouTube channel of 10TV News Telugu, which carried the longer version of the same viral video on July 4, 2022, with a caption: “Bhimavaram Police facing problems by water shortage”. Bhimavaram is a city in Andhra Pradesh.

We also did a comparison between the police uniform seen in the viral video and the uniform of both Andhra Pradesh police and Telangana police. It is evident from the comparison (below) that the insignia seen in the viral video matches Andhra Pradesh police uniform.

Searching further, we found that a 30-foot bronze monument of Alluri Sitaramaraj was unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Andhra Pradesh as part of the 125th birth anniversary festivities on July 3, 2022. We also found a Telugu news article that reported the same event, stating that basic facilities were not provided to the police personnel who participated in this meeting. The article also reported that police even washed their hands in rainwater due to water scarcity.

Thus, the video showing police personnel drinking water from mud is from Andhra Pradesh, and is not related to BJP’s recent national executive meet in Telangana. Therefore, the viral claim misleading.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 979l9

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos n our AI-powered smart news