Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman has become a household name across the country for showing exemplary courage. Ever since Abhinandan returned to India after being held captive in Pakistan for two days, social media is deluged with all sorts of information as well as misinformation about the pilot.

A photo that is currently doing rounds on social media shows a sketch of Abhinandan on the signboard of a tea shop in London called 'Chaiiwala'.

advertisement

The viral post also claims that the tea shop is located in Walthamstow, London. The English translation of the text attributed to the post reads, "A Modi supporter in Britain has named his coffee shop Chaiiwala, and he has put a picture of Wing Commander Abhinandan on its signboard."

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral photograph is morphed.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

A Facebook user, Nalini Singh, shared the image on a public Facebook group called 'We Support Narendra Modi' on Wednesday (March 6). The post has received around 12,000 reactions and has been shared by around 1,500 people on Facebook at the time of filing the story.

Screenshot of post Facebook user Nalini Singh shared on Facebook

The image was also circulated widely on Twitter. A search of the text attributed to the post shows that hundreds of users shared the image with the same claim. You can see the search results here.

Looking for the recent photos of the shop in London, we found that exactly same picture was posted on travel review website TripAdvisor in May, 2018, by a user named 'TravellingTwos'.

However, in this photo, the signboard didn't have Abhinandan's picture on it.

The details of the May, 2018, picture match exactly with the one that is going viral. One can see same customers, wearing the same clothes (see photo). In both the photos, a customer wearing white shoes can be seen getting up from the chair while another woman is standing next to the counter.

Comparison of viral photo and original photo

AFWA tried to contact the tea shop in London as well as user TravellingTwos for confirmation about the photograph. TravellingTwos is yet to reply but the shop has responded to India Today's query sending the latest photo of the shop's signboard.

Current image of Chaiiwala outlet in London sent by tea shop Chaiiwala

Abhinandan had recently made the headlines by shooting down one F-16 of the Pakistan Air Force which entered the Indian airspace.

UPDATE: We were waiting for the confirmation from the London shop owner and the video of the shop. Now that we have these evidence, we are updating the ratings from mostly false to totally false.