The Narendra Modi government and Indian media have constantly been targeted by Pakistani trolls, smarting after the abrogation of Article 370 from Jammu and Kashmir.

Social media users from the neighbouring country are now digging up old and baseless videos to claim that Modi was the mastermind of the Pulwama attack on February 14 this year that killed 40 CRPF jawans.

advertisement

A video of Pakistani YouTuber Doctor Turki’ has resurfaced on social media, who claims to have exposed a leaked call recording of Modi on Pulwama. The video is more than five months old.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be baseless.

Truth behind the claim

The video, posted on March 3, has been shared more than 39,000 times till the time of filing this story. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The Pakistani YouTuber used an old bogus video of Facebook user Avi Dandiya’ as proof to support his claim. Several fact checkers, including India Today, had earlier debunked it. The audio recording used by Avi Dandiya’ was doctored.

The video

The 11-minute video of Doctor Turki’ begins with a long rant, where he is spewing venom against PM Modi. He claims that an audio recording of Modi has been leaked which confirms that the PM is the mastermind behind the Pulwama attack.

He then plays a video of well-known Facebook user Avi Dandiya’ who asks people to listen to an audio clip.

The audio is a conversation, purportedly between an unidentified woman and two Union ministers. The conversation between the trio seems to be on planning an attack on Indian soldiers to arouse patriotic sentiments in the country.

The YouTuber then targets Indian media for running a photo-shopped’ image as the mastermind of the Pulwama attack. He also played a video clip of Wing Commander Abhinandan in the custody of Pakistani forces and appealed Indian people to throw Modi out of power.

AFWA debunks

On March 1, 2019, Avi Dandiya’ appeared on Facebook Live and played an audio conversation between a woman and two BJP ministers, which was later found to be doctored by fact checkers such as Alt News and India Today.

The audio was made after joining together bits and pieces of various speeches and interviews of Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh.

The Pakistani YouTuber has used a portion of Dandiya’s fake video and claimed it to be Modi’s leaked audio recording on Pulwama. Dandiya claims to be a non-resident Indian whose Facebook page has more than 2.8 lakh followers.

Who is Doctor Turki’

advertisement

Pakistani YouTuber Doctor Turki’ has a huge fan following on YouTube and Facebook.

He is running his YouTube channel from 2017 and has a subscriber base of more than five lakh people. He runs his YouTube channel from Saudi Arabia. Most of his videos are targeted against Modi and anti-Indian in nature.

Conclusion

Doctor Turki’s post is misleading as he has used another doctored video to substantiate his claim.

But he was partially correct when he blamed Indian media for using a photo-shopped image of a foreign soldier as the Pulwama mastermind. This was wrongly used by several mainstream media but later rectified.