Have doctors in Singapore made such sensational discoveries regarding coronavirus that defy World Health Organization (WHO) findings?

A long social media post attributed to the Singapore health ministry claims it has become the first country in the world to perform an autopsy on a Covid-19 victim. According to the post, the autopsy revealed that Covid is not caused by a virus, but rather a bacterium, and the disease can be cured using antibiotics.

advertisement

Following the autopsy, which was done in violation of a WHO order, doctors in Singapore have apparently changed their treatment protocols. The post goes on to add that the major cause of death among Covid-infected people is blood clotting and not pneumonia, and intensive care units and ventilators are never needed to treat patients.

The archived version of the post in circulation can be seen here .

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this is yet another conspiracy theory, rehashed from similar claims made earlier. The Singapore health ministry has clarified that the viral post was not issued by them. Neither have they performed such an autopsy nor changed their treatment protocols.

Let us check the claims one by one.

Claim 1: Singapore conducted autopsy on Covid-19 patient

Fact: As the post started going viral on social media, the Singapore health ministry clarified through its official Facebook page that the country has not performed the autopsy of a Covid-19 victim and the claims made in the post are scientifically baseless.

“Singapore has not performed such an autopsy. The message states false information concerning the pathophysiology of Covid-19 infection, which is not borne out by current evidence,” said the Facebook post.

Several media reports from Singapore have also carried the clarification.

Claim 2: WHO is against autopsy on Covid victims

WHO has not said autopsy shouldn’t be performed on Covid victims. In fact, the global health body and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have issued guidelines for autopsy on people who died of Covid.

In India, the first autopsy of a Covid victim was claimed to be done by The Oxford Medical College, Hospital & Research Centre in Bengaluru in October 2020. Autopsies of Covid fatalities have also been done in several other countries, including in the United States, United Kingdom, Italy and Russia.

The other claims in the post were earlier fact-checked by AFWA when a similar post went viral in May last year, attributing it to scientists from Italy.

advertisement

Claim 3: Covid is caused not by virus but bacteria

Fact: According to WHO, Covid-19 is a disease caused by a new coronavirus called SARS-CoV-2. Earlier too, it had debunked the myth that Covid-19 is caused by bacteria and not a virus.

A study on genomic characterisation and epidemiology of the new coronavirus by medical journal “The Lancet” can be seen here.

Claim 4: Anti-inflammatory drugs and antibiotics can cure Covid

Fact: To understand the role of antibiotics in coronavirus treatment, India Today spoke to Dr Suresh Kumar, director of Delhi’s LNJP hospital. He said, “Scientifically speaking, there is no role of antibiotics in treating coronavirus, but these antibiotics are administered to resist secondary or collateral bacterial infections.”

Antibiotics are given to Covid patients to resist secondary bacterial infections that can coexist with coronavirus. These antibiotics are not effective against the virus itself.

Claim 5: Major cause of death is blood clot and not pneumonia

Fact: As per several leading science journals and scientific studies, thrombosis or coagulation of blood cells or blood clots is a frequent complication found in Covid patients.

However, there is no scientific evidence that says thrombosis is the major cause of death or anticoagulant drugs are the only medicine for treating Covid patients. Respiratory failure is the leading cause of death for Covid patients, according to “The Lancet”.

Speaking to India Today, Dr Sharad Joshi of Max Hospital said while thrombosis complications are reported in Covid patients and treatment for that are given on a case-to-case basis, it cannot be a blanket treatment for all cases.

advertisement

Claim 6: Ventilators and ICUs are not needed to treat Covid patients

Fact: According to all senior medical practitioners, Covid patients with critical respiratory illness or multi-organ or renal failure are often treated in ICUs and using ventilators. But not all coronavirus patients require them.

“Most deaths are due to interstitial pneumonia and respiratory failure. To say that patients should not be intubated is totally out of the question,” Sergio Harari, director of the Pneumology Operative Unit at San Giuseppe Hospital in Milan, Italy, said in an interview to “Corriere della Sera”.

Hence, it is clear that the viral post attributed to the Singapore health ministry is misleading. Neither has Singapore conducted an autopsy on a Covid victim nor has it challenged WHO findings on the virus.