Is the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) going to get a landslide victory in the Odisha assembly elections and retain power in the coastal state for a fifth consecutive term?

According to an "exit poll report" doing the rounds on social media, as many as five media organisations and survey agencies have predicted more than two-third majority for Naveen Patnaik's party in the recently-concluded assembly elections after a post-poll survey.

advertisement

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the exit polls to be absolutely false. No such report has been published by the media organisations and agencies to which the exit polls have been attributed to.

Voters in Odisha exercised their franchise for the Lok Sabha and assembly elections simultaneously. Polls were held in four phases between April 11 and April 29. Counting will take place on May 23.

Apart from circulating on WhatsApp, the fake exit polls have also crept on to Facebook and Twitter.

There are several indications within the so-called exit polls to establish that they are fake.

The Election Commission of India has put a blanket ban on exit polls till May 19, the last day of polling. In a press release issued on April 8, the poll panel clearly said that no exit poll, including those of assembly elections, can be published between April 11 to 6.30 pm on May 19.

It is extremely unlikely that reputed media houses and agencies named in the viral post will blatantly violate the EC order. There is no mention of any such report on the websites of the media organisations named in the poll.

On the bottom right-hand corner of the post, there is the logo of a company called onepoll. According to its Twitter profile, 'onepoll.' is an "online quantitative research company" based in the UK and USA.

It is unlikely that an international agency will compile and publish an exit poll report for an assembly election in India, based on the survey of other agencies. We reached out to onepoll. for confirmation and they denied being part of any such exit poll in India.

Incidentally, there are several other fake exit polls doing the rounds and being attributed to media houses and agencies. If you come across any exit poll before the evening of May 19, you can safely assume that it is not genuine.