Monday’s Bharat Bandh by farmers’ unions against the three controversial agriculture laws received mixed response in different states. Except Punjab and parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, there was hardly any disruption to normal life elsewhere in the country.

Farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait, however, termed the bandh a success while speaking to media persons. Soon after, a clipping of his address started going viral with the claim that Tikait has threatened the media.

advertisement

In the 12-second video, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader is heard saying in Hindi, “The next target is media houses. If you want to survive, then support us, else you will suffer.”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral clipping is being circulated out of context. Tikait was actually referring to the Centre’s policies towards farmers. He said the government’s next target could be media houses and called on their stakeholders to join the protests.

The archived versions of the posts are saved here and here.



What Tikait actually said

In one of the viral clippings, we could see the logo of news agency ANI on screen. We found that ANI had tweeted the video on September 28, 2021. Tikait was addressing media persons in Raipur, Chhattisgarh, after arriving there the same day.

In the longer version of the video, Tikait is heard saying, “ Those in Delhi sold off half the country by making new laws they’ve sold off 182 mandis (wholesale markets) in Madhya Pradesh. Chhattisgarh won’t be spared either. It’s time for all of us to come together. The next target would be media houses. If you want to

save yourselves, come with us, or else, you’ll face problems too.”

#WATCH | ... Everyone should join us. The next target will be media houses, if you want to be saved then join us, else you'll also suffer: Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait after arriving in Raipur, Chhattisgarh pic.twitter.com/nnCJgS11Z5— ANI (@ANI) September 28, 2021

Mainstream media outlets have also reported Tikait’s statement that the government’s next target is media houses. The BKU leader was in Chhattisgarh to address a “Kisan Mahapanchayat” at Rajim in Gariaband district.

Hence, it can be concluded that the viral clipping has been forked out of Tikait’s longer address and used in a wrong context.