West Bengal's Ranu Mandal is now an internet sensation. The 58-year-old singer who was found begging at Ranaghat railway station in Nadia district, shot to fame after her melodious rendition of Lata Mangeshkar's "Ek pyar ka nagma hai" went viral on social media.

Her recent video clip of a recording for the song "Teri meri kahani" with Himesh Reshamiya is also a rage on social media.

advertisement

And now, a YouTube video is going viral with a thumbnail picture of Lata Mangeshkar blessing Ranu Mandal. The video claimed that Lata Mangeshkar met Ranu Mandal and was impressed with her song.

YouTube channel "Breaking News 24" uploaded the video with the caption, "Lata Mangeshkar met Ranu Mandal and Ranu sing a song for Lata Di impress with Ranu Mandal Song".

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. Lata Mangeshkar never met Ranu Mandal. The thumbnail picture of Lata Mangeshkar blessing Ranu Mandal is photoshopped and the viral video is doctored.

THE VIRAL VIDEO

The 3:27-minute-long YouTube video was posted on August 26. The archived version can be seen here. Besides Ranu Mandal's viral songs, there are also video clips of Lata Mangeshkar, where she can be seen praising someone at a public function.

The video begins with viral scenes of Ranu Mandal singing "Ek pyar ka nagma hai" which shot her to fame. After a few seconds, Lata Mangeshkar is seen speaking in Hindi, " ki tareef sab ne ki. Kaun nahin karta hain? Aaj pura bharat unka tareef kar raha hain."

After a cut, another clip of Lata Mangeshkar plays where she says "aur woh iss tareef ke kabil hain"; another cut later, she says "teen char din pehle hi unko milne ka programme banaya".

The rest of the clip is Ranu Mandal's song and her video with her daughter. The viral video has been viewed more than 33 lakh times till the filing of this story.

It has also been shared by several users such as "Sangeet 106fm" and "Fijis Ronald Jai Prasad" on Facebook. Several users have also posted this video on Twitter believing that Lata Mangeshkar actually met and praised Ranu Mandal.





FACT CHECK

THUMBNAIL IMAGE IS PHOTOSHOPPED

Using a reverse image search on the viral picture of Mandal being blessed by Mangeshkar, we found the truth. This is a photoshopped image which has been used as a thumbnail for the viral video.

The actual picture is of Lata Mangeshkar with her sister Asha Bhonsle published in 2013.



PHOTOSHOPPED IMAGE



ACTUAL IMAGE





DOCTORED VIDEO OF LATA MANGESHKAR



With the help of keywords search using a combination of words "Lata Mangeshkar praising" on YouTube, we found a video clip of India TV published on November 14, 2013.



The caption of the video says, "Lata Mangeshkar praises Sachin Tendulkar, calls him his son."



Mangeshkar can be clearly heard saying "Sachin ji ki tareef sab ne ki"



Comparing the viral clip of Mangeshkar with the India TV one, it is clear that the singer's clips used in the viral video are taken from the same event where she was actually praising Tendulkar.



After carefully listening to both the clips given below, one can find that in the viral video, "Sachin ji" has been chopped out. The viral video was created by inserting several edited clips of Mangeshkar.



THE EDITED VIDEO





THE ORIGINAL VIDEO







MANGESHKAR NEVER MET MANDAL



We have not found a single credible news report which confirms that Mangeshkar has ever met Mandal, or praised her in public. We also spoke to Mangeshkar's spokesperson who completely denied the viral claim that the legendary singer has met Mandal.



CONCLUSION



The story of Mandal's life has hogged media (https://indianexpress.com/article/entertainment/television/ranu-mandol-here-is-everything-you-need-to-know-about-internet-sensation-himesh-reshammiya-teri-meri-kahani-5943740/) limelight for days. But Mangeshkar has never met her; nor did she praise the singer ever, publicly.



The image of Mangeshkar blessing Mandal is photoshopped. The video clips of Mangeshkar used in the video are also doctored. Hence the entire claim is found to be false.

advertisement

UPDATE

After this article was published, Lata Mangeshkar expressed her happiness over Ranu’s success. According to a report in Hindustan Times, Lata said, "If anyone gets benefited from my name and work then I feel fortunate. But I also feel imitation is not a reliable and durable companion for success."