Spread the truth:

A 12 second video is viral showing a mob is beating a man lying on the road, while one of the attackers hits the victim with a huge rock. The text along with the video is asking why is this not called lynching when the mob is Muslims while the victim is a Hindu.

Following tweet by Pushpendra Kulshrestha @Nationalist_Om has been retweeted approximately 6500 times.

क्या ये लिंचिंग नहीं है??? मरने वाला हिन्दू और मारने वाला मुसलमान है… शायद इसलिए बुद्धिजीवियों की नजर में ये लिंचिंग नहीं है😡

Translation – “Isn’t this lynching. The dying man is Hindu and Killing man is Muslim…. probably because of this, this is not lynching in the view of intellectuals”



archived

Following tweet by “कंगना फैन कट्टर हिन्दू 💯%F 🔙 @Nationalis_RSShad” around 1700 retweets

archived

Truth

This was viral 2 years ago too and SMHoaxSlayer debunked it then

The video is from Bangladesh, not India. The men being beaten, Abu Sayeed (28) and Md. Ali (32) are accused of murder of a Awami League leader Monir Hossain Sarkar. Abu Sayeed died in this attack

The video below was the first uploaded on YouTube claiming the man being beaten is , leader of

The Google English translation for the Bengali Description of the video –

“Chairman of Zierkandi Union of 8 Titas Upazila of Comilla and joint convener of Upazila Juba League Monir Hossain Sarkar was killed in the murder case and two escaped members Abu Sayeed (28) and Md. Ali (32) attacked the miscreants. Abu Sayeed was killed in the incident and Mohammad Ali was seriously injured. The incident took place on Saturday south of Gumti Bailey Bridge in the upazila on Saturday evening.”

Google English Translation of above Bangladesh Local Newspaper-

“Monir chairman murder case accused hacked to death“

Kabir Hossain, Titas: Awami League and absconding accused Abu Sayeed (28) and Mohammad Akter Hossain, the chairman of Zierkandi union of Titas upazila of Comilla and joint convener of Upazila Jubo League Joint Convenor Monir Hossain Sarkar. Ali (32) attacked the miscreants. Abu Sayeed was killed in the incident and Mohammad Ali was seriously injured. The incident took place on Saturday south of Gumti Bailey Bridge in the upazila on Saturday evening.

Police and local sources said that on Saturday evening, the accused of the murder case of Munir, Abu Sayeed, son of late Samad Mia of village Pannai of Daudkandi upazila and Mohammad Ali of the same village. On the way to the Titas upazila, on the way to Titas upazila, a group of miscreants attacked their cars on the south side of the Gomti Bailey Bridge and attacked the car with bricks and stones and hit the body with stones.”

More Fakes

One more Hindu mob lynched by MUSLIMS in broad day light, Hindu boy was brutally beaten & crushed by big stone block, Liberals are still quite no outrage no media bites @asadowaisi @TarekFatah pic.twitter.com/ECbnkJi5Fh — छोटे नेताजी (@AkalLess) June 25, 2019

क्या ये लिंचिंग नहीं है??? मरने वाला हिन्दू और मारने वाला मुसलमान है… शायद इसलिए बुद्धिजीवियों की नजर में ये लिंचिंग नहीं है😡

pic.twitter.com/jK89ALtnvW — Modiwadi Monk Anurag Jayaswal (@AnuBabaG) June 25, 2019

Related