Following widespread protests for and against the right to wear hijabs in educational institutes in Karnataka, cops banned protests and agitations on the matter within a 200-metre radius of any school, college, or other educational institutions in Bengaluru city. Amid this, a video has gone viral that shows police forcibly removing a group of protestors, including burqa-clad women, from the road.

advertisement

The video was circulated on social media with claims that around 40 per cent of the burqa-clad protestors who got arrested at the pro-hijab demonstration turned out to be men.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found the claim to be false. This video in question was from a protest against the National Education Policy (NEP) that was held in Bengaluru in September 2021.

AFWA probe

Due to the poor quality of the video in question, it was difficult to spot too many details.

We did a reverse search of the keyframes of the video on Google and found images from the same protest carried by a website called Sahil Online on September 15, 2021.

According to this report, the images are from a protest held by students in Bengaluru against the National Education Policy (NEP) in September 2021. Police resorted to light lathi charging on the protestors as they tried to march towards the Vidhan Sabha where the assembly session was on.

We also found similar visuals in videos from the same protest uploaded to various YouTube channels in 2021.

Several news outlets also reported on police action against the protesting students in September 2021.

According to a report in The New Indian Express, close to 300 students participated in the protest organised by the Campus Front of India (CFI). Students demanded that NEP-2020, which was implemented in Karnataka first, be taken up for discussion at the legislature session and withdrawn. All protesters were taken into preventive custody and later released.

A report about the incident by TV9 Kannada can be seen below.

However, we couldn’t find news reports to substantiate the claim that cops arrested men wearing burqas during the recent protests against the hijab bans. In fact, recently, the Karnataka Police debunked a similar claim when it circulated with a different video from the Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh.

Thus, it is clear that the video in question is from 2021 and not related to the ongoing hijab row in Karnataka. The claim that 40 per cent of the burqa-clad women were actually men is also baseless.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena in Lucknow)