The video has been edited with the help of a snapchat app to portray Sanjay Raut crying amidst the Maharashtra political crisis.

As the political crisis in the party deepens, several Shiv Sena workers took to the streets against the party rebels across Maharashtra and Delhi. The Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and the state minister for urban development, Eknath Shinde, are engaged in a power struggle with each other for the reigns of Shiv Sena.

Amidst this, a video showing Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut with a frown on his face during an interview is widely circulating on social media with the claim that Sanjay Raut was pushed to tears by the current situation in Maharashtra. This video is very viral on Facebook.

(Hindi: #भक्तो रुला दिया ना नॉटी को)

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check–

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on Youtube and went through Sanjay Raut’s recent interviews. We found the interview published by Aaj Tak on 21 June 2022. The caption of the video says, “Sanjay Raut EXCLUSIVE: ‘Gujarat Police has caught our MLAs’ | | Maharashtra Politics Crisis.”

The description of the video states, “Amidst the political crisis facing the Maharashtra government, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that I have spoken to Eknath Shinde. BJP is behind all this development.” We can see Sanjay Raut giving an interview to anchor Sahil Joshi.

Upon listening to this interview, we could not see any frown on Sanjay Raut’s face.

Next, we compared the screenshot of the viral video with the original video. We found that the video is altered and the frown has been added to Sanjay Raut’s face to portray that he is crying amidst the political tension in Maharashtra.

Further, we found that the original video was edited with the help of a snapchat filter named “sad crying face.” Once this filter is used on any person, it automatically shows a sad crying face. You can see how this filter works in the Youtube video below. You can also see people using the same filter here and here.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hjqxe94OAVg&ab_channel=LastErrorFixer

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the viral video shared as Satire to be Misleading. The viral video has been edited with the help of a snapchat app to portray Sanjay Raut crying amidst the Maharashtra political crisis. Many social media users are sharing the video thinking the video is real.