Amid the Karnataka hijab row, a video of a man has gone viral with the claim that he threatened all Hindus with dire consequences if they did not convert to Islam.

Several Twitter users shared the video that declared in Hindi text, “These people have decided your fate. They are just waiting for Modi to be out of the picture. Let’s ensure that all our Hindu brothers are aware of this. Hindus, see this with clear eyes and hear this with your ears clear. Use WhatsApp to make sure every Hindu brother in your contacts list sees this.”

advertisement

Some Twitter users even shared the video with the trending hashtag #KarnatakaHijabRow.

In the 29-second-long clip, a man can be heard speaking in Hindi. He says, “There is still time. Repent. Ask for forgiveness from God's messenger. Or your body won't even be burnt. Vultures, crows, and jackals will feed on your body.” Then, after a jump cut, the man says, “I am inviting you, read the Kalma and become a Muslim. If you want deliverance, read the Kalma and become a Muslim.”

India Today Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the viral video was edited. The person in the video is Saeed Irshad Ahmed Al Bukhari of Dinajpur, Bangladesh. He was responding to Yati Narsinghanand's comments on Islam.

AFWA probe

With the help of InVid and reverse image search, we found that a longer version of the same video was tweeted in May 2021. In the caption, journalist Swati Goel Sharma wrote, “Friendly message from Bangladesh: Corona pandemic and the many deaths and cremations in India is because of 'blasphemy' by Narsinghanand. Hindus, do tauba, otherwise your dead bodies won't be cremated but eaten by cheel-kawwe. Ae pandit Narsinghanand, accept our Islam.”

Using this as a clue, with the help of keyword search, we found the original video on Facebook, belonging to one Dr Syed Irshad Ahmad Al Bukhari. The original video was over seven minutes long and it was posted on April 30, 2021.

According to the Bengali caption of the Facebook post, the man delivering the speech, Bukhari. And he had arranged a human chain in the Dinajpur district of Bangladesh to protest the controversial comments made by Hindu religious leader Yati Narsinghanand against Islam. According to his Facebook profile, Bukhari is a lecturer at the Islamic Research Centre in Dinajpur, Bangladesh.

Missing context

Listening carefully to the entire speech delivered by Syed Irshad Ahmed Al Bukhari, we confirmed that the viral clip was an edited one and the relevant portions have been chopped out in the viral clip to give a different context to it.

Bukhari began his speech with, “Today we’ve gathered here in Dinajpur, Bangladesh, after the Jumma’s Namaz just to say one thing. That India’s shameless and wicked Pandit Narsinghanand Saraswati, who has insulted and disrespected our Rasool Allah, we just want to say that we two crore Muslims of the world are ready to sacrifice our lives on our Rasool Allah’s feet.”

advertisement

So, the context of his speech can be established as a protest against Narsinghanand. But only a small part of his speech was forked out and used in the viral clip. The viral clip also has a jump cut in between two frames, which suggests the clip was edited deliberately to give it a different colour.

In the last half of the original video, the man can be heard saying, “In a list of 100 religious teachers’ names, Rasool Allah was at the first position. It was a Christian who kept Rasool Allah at the top of the list; that a Christian recognizes who Rasool Akhal Akhal is, but Narsinghanand Saraswati, you don’t have enough knowledge to understand that.”

Then he kept on saying, addressing Narsinghanand: “I am inviting you to read the Kalma and become a Muslim. If you want deliverance, read the Kalma and become a Muslim.”

Thus, we confirm that the viral clip was edited deliberately to give it a different context. We also confirmed that the speech was not delivered in India but in Bangladesh. And finally, it has nothing to do with the Karnataka Hijab row.

(With input from Yash Mittal)