BJP's scintillating victory in four state assembly elections including Uttar Pradesh has thrilled party supporters. The waves of celebration by pro-BJP handles on social media are yet to die down. Among the posts that were shared by them include an image allegedly from the New York Stock Exchange with a digital scroll that showed the news of the BJP's win "in India's biggest state."

advertisement

"Just ZOOM and see at New York Stock exchange what is displayed in digital display," the photo was captioned by a user on Facebook.

Similar posts have been archived here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this claim to be not true. The building in the picture is not the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The image was found online after the UP assembly elections in 2017.

AFWA PROBE

We ran a keyword search on Google to find reports of assembly elections in India being displayed at the NYSE. But there were none.

"Modi wins landslide election victory in India's biggest state," the news scroll on the building read. When the line was Googled, a news report by Reuters was found. The photo story (https://reut.rs/3KKnvIl) was published on March 11, 2017. It was on this day Yogi Adityanath led BJP government retained power in Uttar Pradesh for the second time.

A reverse image search of the viral photo was conducted. This led us to tweets by BJP IT wing in-charge Amit Malviya and Rajya Sabha MP Om Prakash Mathur. Both leaders had tweeted the viral photo from their verified handles on March 12, 2017.

News of BJP's big win under Prime Minister Modi splashed in Canary Warf, prominent business district of London. Zoom it.. #IAmNewIndia pic.twitter.com/Z17OtsUatL — Amit Malviya (@amitmalviya) March 12, 2017

This confirmed that the viral image is old.

We noticed that Amit Malviya had claimed the spot of the photograph in his tweet. He identified the place as "Canary Warf, prominent business district of London," and not the New York Stock Exchange.

With the help of Google Maps, we verified the premises of both places in question. While the exterior images of the Thomson Reuters building in Canary Wharf looked very similar to the photo, the area around NYSE looked different. Neither could we find any photos of a news screen at the front side of the NYSE building.

In the viral photo, the news was displayed in a single-line digital news scroll with orange text. The same was found on the Thomson Reuters building.

This concluded that the photo was not taken in the United States as claimed in the post.

Hence, it can be concluded that the image shared following the BJP's victory in the assembly polls to Uttar Pradesh is old. The image seen in the photograph is not the New York Stock Exchange as claimed.

(With inputs from Sanjana Saxena in Lucknow)