According to reports, human and goods smuggling activities in Afghanistan have increased ever since the Taliban captured Kabul.

Amid this, a picture of an aircraft stashed inside a truck is circulating on social media with the claim that this is how a plane is being smuggled from Afghanistan into Pakistan.

A Twitter user posted the image with the caption, “Trafficking aeroplane by truck to Pakistan. Welcome to the Pakistani occupied Afghanistan.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room ( AFWA) has found the claim along with the image to be misleading. It is an Afghan military aircraft that’d crash-landed at Daikundi in central Afghanistan in 2017. Later, the damaged Cessna aircraft was carried on to a truck from the accident area.

The archived version of the tweet is saved here.

AFWA probe

Several users have commented on the viral tweet that it is an old image of an Afghan military aircraft that had crash-landed in central Afghanistan. Using this as a clue, and with the help of keyword search, we found an old tweet by journalist Ehsanullah Amiri from his verified handle dated October 3, 2017.

Posting an image of a plane crash on an arid terrain, Amiri had remarked sarcastically, “The newly appointed Daikundi governor has made such landing. Let’s see how other things go with him. Welcome to central Afghanistan!”

The newly appointed Daikundi governor has made such landing. Let’s see how other things go with him. Welcome to central Afghanistan! pic.twitter.com/DgpV2LMDXz — Ehsanullah Amiri (@euamiri) October 3, 2017

In the viral image, one can see the registration number “YA12303” on the plane’s body. Using this and with the help of “Aviation Safety Network” website that has a huge database on plane accidents around the world, we found all details about the airplane seen in the viral image.

According to this data, the aircraft, a Cessna 208B Grand Caravan with registration number “YA12303”, was operated by the Afghan Air Force. It sustained substantial damage in an accident at Nili Airport in Afghanistan’s Daikundi Province in October 2017.

Viral image

Tracking the plane

The aircraft had dropped off the new provincial governor of Daikundi at Nili airport and just departed when a forced landing was carried out by the crew due to “technical reasons”. The aircraft came to rest off the airstrip. The nose landing gear had collapsed, and the propeller was damaged.

The same incident was reported on “Tolo News” on October 3, 2017. No casualties were reported but the plane sustained serious damage. Later, the damaged plane was shifted out from the accident spot with the help of a truck.

Reports coming in from Afghanistan indicate that trafficking in humans, drugs, weapons, electronic goods and other items have increased due to the conflict. However, the viral picture has nothing to do with the situation in the troubled country. It is all about an old plane accident that took place in central Afghanistan in 2017.