After BJP suspended Nupur Sharma for controversial remarks on the Prophet, which triggered massive communal clashes in many parts of the nation, a letter purportedly written by Home Minister Amit Shah is widely being shared on social media. According to the letter, Shah has asked Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Dhami to provide Z-class security to Nupur Sharma.

The letter in circulation reads, “Shri Pushkar Singh Dhami, I admire your efforts to maintain Law & Order in the state and your keen interest to provide Z security to Shri Ajay Gupta is also commendable. In current scenario, I recommend you to critically evaluate emerging threats to the family house of Smt Nupur Sharma in Dehradun and provide Z security on urgent basis. I am confident that you will manage well and efficiently execute this task. Both Shri Ajay Gupta and Smt Nupur Sharma are icons to promote Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ideology that will ultimately lead us to accomplish Hindu Rashtra goal. I hope, you will understand the sensitive nature of this task and give your prime importance. My best wishes to you and your team.. Yours sincerely, Amit Shah.”

The link to the post can be seen here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile did a fact-check and found the claim to be fake.

On searching with appropriate keywords, we could not find any media report about Amit Shah writing to Pushkar Dhami regarding Nupur Sharma’s security.

We also found that a similar letter that went viral in 2021 which had the same H.M.P. number as the one viral now and had the same fold mark on the bottom right corner of the page. NewsMobile had then done a fact-check that can be seen here.

PIB Fact Check also refuted the claim. The tweet read, “A letter is doing rounds on social media claiming to be written by Union Home Minister, Amit Shah, to CM of Uttarakhand, Pushkar Singh Dhami.”

Thus we can ascertain that the viral letter is fake.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news