A video of a JCB machine tearing apart hawker vans filled with fruits is going viral on social media with the claim that this is how the poor are harassed in Yogi Adityanath's Uttar Pradesh.

Several Facebook users such as 'Sultan Mirza', 'Asif Ansari' and 'Pravin Patodiya' have shared the 1-minute-49-second video with a sarcastic caption in Hindi which translates to: "Efforts to make India poverty-free start from Yogi's Uttar Pradesh."

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim misleading as the video is of an eviction drive in Odisha and not Uttar Pradesh. The viral video with a similar claim has been shared by many on Facebook.

AFWA probe

At the 56th second of the video, we saw a man in uniform pass by with a dark-coloured emblem on his left arm.

Since the viral video looks like an eviction drive where police are usually deployed, we started looking for similar police emblems on the Internet. Searching among police emblems of various states, we found that the emblem in the viral video looks similar to the one of Odisha Police.

After getting this clue that the video might be from Odisha, we searched the Internet using keywords such as "eviction, fruit vendors, Odisha", and found a similar video of the same incident from the YouTube channel of Odisha TV.

The video was uploaded by OTV on January 24, 2010. The video is more than three minutes long. The caption of the video reads: "Fruit Carts Destroyed During BMC's Eviction Drive Near Unit 1 Market In Bhubaneswar."

The above video was shot from a different angle. But we could identify the same people seen in the viral video as well.

Man in white cap and blue jeans

In both the videos, a man in a white cap and blue jeans can be seen instructing people.

Screen grab from viral video

Screen grab from OTV video

Man in half sweater and full sleeve shirt

A man in a half sweater and full sleeve shirt can be identified easily in both the videos.

Screen grab from viral video

Screen grab from OTV video

We also found that on February 8 this year, news website "Odisha Bytes" did a fact-check story saying that the viral video is from Odisha.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video of the eviction drive is not from Uttar Pradesh but Bhubaneswar in Odisha.