Ever since the Taliban took over Afghanistan in mid-August, lakhs of Afghans have been trying to flee the war-torn country. Many people have been trying to get into neighbouring Pakistan and Tajikistan as well.

On social media, a video showing hundreds of people crossing a gate with a Pakistani flag on it is circulating with the claim that it shows Afghans rushing to Pakistan after it recently opened its border for refugees. The people carrying heavy luggage are heard hooting in happiness.

advertisement

The archived versions of the posts can be seen here here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video is from April 2020, and it shows Afghans in Pakistan returning to their country after Pakistan opened its border that was shut for days due to a surge in Covid-19 cases.

AFWA probe

Using keyword search, we found that the viral video was uploaded by “The Telegraph” on its YouTube channel on April 8, 2020. According to them, the video shows Afghans rushing back home from Pakistan through the Torkham border crossing near Khyber Pass. The border was closed for more than two weeks as part of Covid-19 restrictions.

The same video was also tweeted by “BBC Urdu” on the same day with similar information. Other media reports corroborate the claim as well.

According to “Dawn” Pakistan authorities on April 6, 2020, had relaxed travel restrictions to Afghanistan for four days and opened the Torkham border following a request from the neighbouring government due to a surge in the number of Afghan nationals at the border.

Following this, thousands of Afghans stranded in Pakistan rushed to Torkham border and Pakistan border authorities allowed every Afghan present to cross the border.

A Twitter thread of multiple videos of the ensuing chaos can be seen here.

The geolocation of Torkham border can be seen here. A comparison between a screengrab from “The Telegraph” video and a Google image from Torkham border can be seen below.

Meanwhile, according to media reports, while Pakistan has said it will not accept any Afghan refugee, thousands of Afghans are crossing over to Pakistan through the Spin Boldak-Chaman land border crossing that has remained open.

However, it is clear that the video in question is over a year old and shows Afghans stranded in Pakistan due to Covid restrictions returning to their country.

advertisement

READ: Fact Check: Did UNSC under India’s presidency remove Taliban from terror list?

ALSO READ: Fact Check: This 'river of blood' is not linked to the Kabul terror attack

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Old video viral claiming Pakistani Taliban issued threats to Modi government