An image of a dilapidated building is circulated on social media with the claim that it is the CID office in West Bengal’s Howrah.

The image in question shows a blue board with "Detective Department CI..D West Bengal" written on it. Another board says, “Office of the Inspector of Police C.I.D West Bengal. Howrah” at the bottom.

Taking a dig at the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal for the poor condition of the alleged CID office seen in the image, a Twitter user wrote, “As Calcutta is changed like London by Didi, Sherlock Holmes steps out of Scotland Yard!”

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the image is misleading. The image in question is the old office location of CID, Howrah. The CID office of Howrah has been shifted to a different location now.

AFWA probe

With the help of a reverse image search, we found that the image in question has been in circulation with similar claims on social media since at least 2018.

India Today’s Howrah correspondent visited the location of the building in Nandi Bagan and confirmed that no such board, as shown in the viral image, can be found on the building. We compared the image in question with recent photos and videos accessed by India Today.

In the recent photos, no boards can be seen and we also noticed that some renovation work had been done on the building. A comparison between the image in question and a recent image taken from the same location can be seen below.

A recent video shot by India Today in front of the same building can be seen below.

For better clarity on the matter, we contacted West Bengal CID. A senior officer from CID Howrah confirmed to us that the image in question is old and the department’s office was shifted from the building seen in the image in question to the Red Court Building in November 2018.

Recent images and videos shot by our correspondent in front of the new CID office in Howrah’s Rishi Bankim Chandra Road can be seen below.

Google map location of the CID office in Rishi Bankim Chandra Road can be see here.

We also found images and videos of the CID office in Rishi Bankim Chandra Road, uploaded by users in December 2018 on the Google Maps. This confirms the CID office in Red Court building has been functional at least since the end of 2018.

advertisement

It is hence clear that the image in question is old and the CID office in Howrah no longer exists in the building seen in the image.

(With inputs from Baidyanath Jha in Howrah)