The plight of the farmers has been one of the most debated issues on social media recently. But a particular viral photo with the same message posted by many, all claiming it to be their own story , has generated debate. Many are wondering if these messages fake and are been pushed as a part of political propaganda.

Multiple users posted the same photo of a truck loaded with garlic stock along with the claim that they had to sell 1,500 kg of garlic just for Rs 3,000 as prices have crashed badly. They all claimed to highlight the plight of farmers through this "real life story".

advertisement

While people debated the authenticity of this picture and story, India Today Fact Check investigated the matter to find the truth. We found out that Ujiyare Lal Dohare was the person who actually first posted this picture on Twitter. It was picked up by some other users to falsely claim it as their own story. Looking at the following posts, it is difficult to make out whether they are highlighting the plight of farmers or narrating their own story.

"I sold out 1,500 kg of garlic just for Rs 3,000 than throwing it away. Net Rs 2,000 after fright charges. Total production cost Rs 40,000. I could bear this loss but think about poor farmers who have no alternative than to commit suicide. This is the fate of Indian farmers ."- Almost the same message was posted by all of them.

Among multiple posts, the tweets by three users - Ujiyare Lal Dohare, Aadil Mansuri, and Anthony Saldanha were shared, widely.

Many social media users suspected these posts to be deliberate propaganda against BJP. BJP National Social media in-charge Priti Gandhi went to the extent of calling this fake news.

CAUGHT RED HANDED!!



Three different twitter accounts, all three making the exact same claim of having sold the exact same consignment of garlic at the exact same price!!!



Is this a co-incidence, or is it Cambridge Analytica??#FakeNewsAlert pic.twitter.com/jTbkrJ8Tng Priti Gandhi (@MrsGandhi) December 26, 2018

3 different people claiming they sold 1500kg garlic at same rates using same pic.



Congress IT Cell at work. pic.twitter.com/LbsaiW4LSA Ankur Singh (@iAnkurSingh) December 26, 2018



By going through the date and time of these posts, India Today found that among all three users, Ujiyare Lal Dohare is the first one to tweet this picture with the claim on December 25, 2018.

His Twitter bio says Dohare is the "Executive Director(Retd) of Indian Oil". His post has been retweeted more than 3,600 times at the time of writing this article. Aadil Mansuri and Anthony Saldanha had also made the same claim with the same photo on Twitter, later.

Aadil Mansuri's (@AadilMa45201893 )posted this on December 26. As per his Twitter bio, Mansuri is located in Indore and has only tweeted 26 times so far in the past year. He has only 13 followers on Twitter. He did not respond to our queries about his post.



As per the Twitter bio, the other user, Anthony Saldanha (@AnthonySald ) is based in Canada and USA. But his Twitter timeline shows that he has hardly shared anything related to Canada or USA. Majority of his tweets are related to Indian politics . It is also interesting to note that Saldanha claims to be living in Canada and USA, but an analysis of his tweet patterns through foller.me shows that his tweets are aligned to Indian Time ( IST). Almost all of his recent tweets have been done in the morning and evening (Indian Time). His time analysis done through foller.me can be seen here.

advertisement

Saldhana did not respond to our queries made through Twitter till the time of filing the report.

Ujiyare Lal Dohare, who tweeted it first, was also involved in active politics. He had contested 2014 Lok Sabha polls on Aam Aadmi Party ticket.

Speaking to India Today, Dohare claimed that this picture was clicked by him on December 18, at his home in village Khera in Auriaya district of Uttar Pradesh. The same day, he sold 1,500 kilograms of garlic at Bharthna market, Etawah for Rs 3,000 to a private whole seller. Dohare could not provide us the receipt of the sale. However, he shared the original picture clicked by him which has been cropped to use in the tweet. We found the high-resolution picture to be original.

advertisement

Based on the above evidence we can say with certainty that Ujiayre Lal Dohare is the person who had originally posted this claim, which was copied by others. We could not ascertain that the claim of Dohare selling garlic at the rate of Rs 2 per kg was true or not as he did not provide us any evidence to support his claim.

Also read: Fact Check: No, Modi was not waving at an empty train from Assam bridge

Also read: Fact Check: Viral claims about Sambit Patra's removal as BJP spokesperson are false