Amid the news of cyclone Asani causing heavy rainfall in Andhra Pradesh, a video went viral with the claim that a “chariot made of gold” reached the shores of Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh.

The viral video showed people dragging a chariot from the sea to the shore.

Many people on Twitter and Facebook shared the video and claimed in the caption: “A chariot made of gold found in the ocean. Due to Cyclone Asani, a chariot made of gold was swept to the coast in the Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. The chariot is shaped like a monastery. Perhaps it floated all the way from Thailand or Myanmar and reached the coast of Andhra Pradesh.”

advertisement

The viral posts have been archived here and here.

AFWA Probe

We found multiple credible media outlets reported the incident and said a mysterious “gold-coloured” chariot washed ashore on the beach of Srikakulam on May 10.

The video showed a chariot of golden colour being dragged by the locals to the seashore. Nowhere was it reported, however, that the chariot was made of gold.

India Today spoke to IAS officer Shrikesh B Lathakar, the collector of Srikakulam district, who clarified that the chariot was not made of gold but was golden in colour. He said, “The chariot is now in the custody of local police.”

For further confirmation, India Today spoke to a police officer from Srikakulam who saw the chariot and can be called an eyewitness. M Venkata Ganesh, the circle inspector of Tekkali circle, Srikakulam, told India Today over the phone that following investigations, the police did not find “any valuable metal like gold in the chariot. It is made of steel and wood. But its colour is golden.” He added, “We have called in the bomb squad today to check it further.”

He has also sent us some photos of the chariot taken by locals.

The district administration is still not sure where this chariot came from. “There are some inscriptions on it. We are getting the help of the experts to decipher them. This might give us some clue,” said Lathakar.

Thus, we concluded that the “chariot” in question was not made of gold. Rather, it was golden in colour.