With the onset of monsoon in several parts of Pakistan, many cities have been put on high alert with a forecast of heavy rains. Rains have battered Pakistan’s financial capital Karachi as well.

Against this backdrop, viral video of a PIA passenger plane taxiing on a flooded runway at Karachi airport is doing rounds on social media.

A Facebook user posted the video with the caption: Today Karachi Airport due to heavy rain in sindh bhutto zinda hai!.

You can find the video here.

FACT CHECK

NewsMobile fact-checked the viral video and found it to be misleading.

Doing a Yandex reverse-image search of keyframes led us to a YouTube video titled: PIA Plane Landing in Deep Water at Karachi Airport | Karachi Rain | TSC1. The video was published on August 27, 2020, on a verified local YouTube channel named Talk Shows Central.

Just like this year, Karachi received above-average rainfall in 2020 as well. With several parts of the city inundated, the runway at the Karachi airport too got submerged in floods. The incident was widely reported by various media houses and YouTube channels in August 2020. You can find the links here, here, and here.

Diving further into our investigation, we conducted a Google keyword search to find out about any recent incidents of flooding at Karachi airport. While Pakistan is suffering due to the record-breaking monsoon this year, there is no particular news item to corroborate the viral video as a recent occurrence. Our search, further, led us to a July 11, 2022 tweet by The Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority (PCAA). The government body confirmed in their tweet that the video is not recent and that everything is normal at the Jinnah International Airport (JIAP), Karachi.

The tweet reads: An old video is being flushed around on social media that shows an airplane moving on a runway covered in water. Please note that this is an old video, nearly 3-year old, and does not depict the present situation at Karachi’s JIAP, which is normal, with drains working normally.

Therefore, based on our findings, we can conclusively say that the video doing rounds on social media claiming a PIA passenger plane on a flooded runway at the Karachi airport is from August 2020, and is not recent.

If you want to fact-check any story, WhatsApp it now on +91 11 7127 9799

Your name

Your email

Subject

Your message (optional)

Δ

Click here for Latest News updates and viral videos on our AI-powered smart news