The deaths of American basketball legend Kobe Bryant and his daughter in a helicopter crash on January 26 have shocked the world. Fans have been mourning on social media, putting out videos and photos of the sportsman.

Amid this, a video of a chopper crash has gone viral on Facebook and YouTube with the claim that this was the mishap that claimed Bryant and his daughter. Facebook page Viral Community uploaded the video on January 26 with the caption, Actual video of the helicopter crash caught on tape - RIP Kobi Bryant.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. The viral video is more than a year old and has no relation to the basketball player’s death.

AFWA probe

On YouTube, the same video was uploaded by CrazyVideoCompilationsTv on January 26 with the caption .

A user named Stasiek Sambierski commented on the YouTube video that this was an old video of a crash near Dubai that took place in 2018.

Taking this as a clue, we searched YouTube using keywords such as helicopter crash Dubai UAE 2018, and found the same video posted by Universal Media Online

The video description says four people were killed when a helicopter exploded into a fireball after reportedly clipping the world’s longest zip line in UAE. The video was uploaded on December 29, 2018.

Another YouTube Channel As Random As It Gets uploaded the viral video on January 26, 2020, with the caption, Fact Check: Helicopter crash in UAE, December 2018 being shared as Kobe Bryant crash. Stop fake news.

It also gives a website link to an article published on The Sun on December 29, 2018. The same video can be seen here in the article whose headline says Heli Fireball: UAE helicopter crash leaves four dead after chopper smashes into the world’s longest zip line’.

Watch the video here.

On December 30, 2018, BBC News also reported the same incident with the headline, UAE helicopter crash kills four crew on rescue mission near zipline. The report says an Agusta 139 helicopter was on a rescue mission at Jebel Jais, a mountain in the Ras al-Khaimah emirate, when the mishap took place. Video footage has emerged showing the helicopter in a tailspin and on fire on the mountainside, the article said.

US media has released video of the aftermath of the crash aerial shots of the crash site where Bryant’s chopper fell. But there is no video of his crash available till now.

Also read: Fact Check: Truth behind mother fox feeding koalas during Australia bushfires

Also read: Fact Check: Did Rahul Gandhi salute the Tricolour with his left hand?