A video shared recently on WhatsApp has gone viral as it shows a six-year-old girl performing 53 somersaults in 80 seconds, increasing vow factor among many. It further claimed that the girl’s name is Jaspreet Sandhu.

It was shared on Twitter as shown below and also on Facebook.

Fact Check

When Digiteye India took it up for fact checking owing to the amazing stance by a child, we were able to trace the original video in Youtube. Here’s the original video that was uploaded by South China Morning Post on Aug 25, 2020. The video clearly says that the girl was a Chinese and then aged five years. The video also gives other details on how her father trained her.

The girl identified as Li has been practising it for for more than ayear now and her father wants her to break the Guinness World Record some day, as revealed in the video description on YouTube. Here’s the original video.

Using the clippings of this video, the tweet being shred by Dr.Seema (@bghwa02) has claimed that it was a girl by name Jaspreet Sandhu, which is not true.

Little girl + grit = 80 somersaults in 1 minute. pic.twitter.com/b3wf2QgCiu — South China Morning Post (@SCMPNews) August 25, 2020

When we checked other tweets of the Twitter user @bghwa02, whas has 41.5K followers, and claims to be a poet, activist, psychologist and a Social worker, we realised that she has shared many such messages without checking the facts.

The Twitter user Dr.Seema (@bghwa02) in another tweet recently, claimed that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi “failed to congratulate” Olympic Gold medal winner Neeraj Chopra on Aug 7 and hence, his twitter account was suspended.

The reality is that the account of Rahul Gandhi was suspended before the Olympic event took place and it was reportedly due to the fact that he shared the image of rape victim’s family members on Twitter.

Claim: Six-year-old Jaspreet Sandhu did the feat.

Conclusion: The girl is actually a Chinese and the video is one year old.

Our Rating: Totally False —