Amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the Kerala Assembly on Thursday, December 31, passed a unanimous resolution demanding repeal of the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws.

Now, if a viral claim circulating on social media is to be believed, the Kerala government has decided to ban operations of Reliance Jio in the state from 2021. The claim further says that the Pinarayi Vijayan government has also decided to provide government-owned network service and mobile phones at half of Jio’s prices.

advertisement

One such claim in Hindi translates to, “A fitting reply to Modi and Ambani by the communist government in Kerala! From the new year, Jio’s Internet service will be shut in Kerala. The government’s own network, Kerala Fibre Net, and the phone starts at half the price of Jio! Red Salute”.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be false. The Kerala government has neither banned Jio nor started a state-owned Internet service.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

The Kerala government trying to ban Jio’s Internet services in the state would have definitely made headlines. However, we could not find any such report, even by Kerala’s leading media houses. We then searched for news reports on Kerala starting a state-owned network service.

According to a report published on November 2, 2020, by “Mint”, the Kerala government plans to provide free Internet to government institutions and two million families living below poverty line through its project ‘Kerala Fibre Optic Network’ (KFON).

The article also says that KFON is the first-of-its-kind among states, but is similar to the Government of India’s ‘BharatNet’ project. However, we could not find any report on Kerala starting a state-owned network service.

A report by “The New Indian Express” said KFON is expected to partner with private Internet service providers (ISPs) such as Reliance Jio, BSNL and Airtel for providing seamless bandwidth connectivity in Kerala.

For more clarity on the matter, we reached out to Mohammed Y Safirulla, IT secretary of Kerala.

“State governments cannot ban any telecom network. All telecom providers have equal rights to operate in a state. KFON is just a Kerala government project to provide optical fiber connectivity across the state over a period of time. It does not affect private network providers in any way. KFON does not aspire to be a telecom service provider or an Internet service provider,” Safirulla said.

AFWA also spoke to Mosses Rajkumar, the project head of KFON.

Rubbishing the viral claim, Rajkumar said, “Through KFON, we are only creating a back-end infrastructure on which local cable TV operators and network providers will be able to provide high-end bandwidth connectivity.”

advertisement

“By February, we are hoping to provide connectivity to around 1,000 government officers by purchasing Internet from ISPs. Offering network to households will take more time and we will need to call tenders from private network operators, which will definitely include Jio,” he said.

Hence, it is clear that the viral claim saying Kerala government has banned Jio Internet services in the state is false. Also, Kerala is not offering state-owned Internet connection or mobile phones.