US President Donald Trump is often in the news for his typical flamboyance.

But just before his arrival in India and much talked about meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, some people are trying to take it too far with the help of a sensational video.

A small video clip has gone viral on Facebook which claims that Donald Trump is suggestively grabbing bikini-clad women. People are questioning why PM Modi is spending crores of rupees in welcoming such a cheap person.

advertisement

Several users like Yuva Bharat and Abhishekh Sharma have shared this 30-second long video on Facebook with Hindi caption, PM Modi is spending Rs 100 crores in 3 hours for this cheap person, Donald Trump.

The archived version of these posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room ( AFWA) found this to be a false claim. The person seen in the video is not Donald Trump, but a Trump impersonator.

Several people have shared this post on Facebook.

Using the Invid verification tool, first, we sliced up the keyframes of the viral video and then used a reverse image search on one of these frames. We found similar images published on Express.co.uk on November 10, 2016. The caption of these photos reads The globally renowned artist Alison Jackson has taken a series of pictures of a spoof Donald Trump celebrating as if he has won the presidential election. The pictures have been released to celebrate the launch of her new book 'Private', available on Amazon.

One news clip regarding the Trump impersonator was also uploaded by AFP news agency on YouTube on October 26, 2016,with caption Bikini-clad models surround fake Trump in NYC stunt .

The person who is seen in the viral video is Dennis Alan a Trump lookalike who is known for mocking the US president. BBC news has done a news report on this man on 2017 who talks about his appearance and how he impersonates Donald Trump.

The viral video of Dennis Alan grabbing bikini-clad women as Trump impersonator was covered by many news websites like Mirror and The Star.

As per these news reports, this stunt by lookalike Trump was created by renowned artist Alison Jackson.

Also read: Fact Check: This is not Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s wife Emilie Schenkl

Also read: Fact Check: No, India has not developed any treatment for coronavirus