Will Smith won an Oscar for best actor in the movie King Richards. Meanwhile, he also slapped the anchor and famous comedian Chris Rock for making a joke about his wife. The clip of the heated moment between Will and Chris at the stage is getting viral on the internet with different claims.

Problematic Bleeder posted a collage of a few actors among the audience who attended the award function. He captioned the viral picture by capturing the reaction of the people after Will Smith slapped Chris Rock.

The reactions after Will Smith assaults Chris Rock on televisions around the work. The Rock is in concerned disbelief (Ok he’s not the best actor but he’s a great person)! Things must have been reeeaaal awkward in the audience when Will walked up to get his Oscar. #oscars pic.twitter.com/73UoE4CcTs — Problematic Bleeder (@Saucy_Sadie) March 28, 2022

Many other users have also posted a collage of the reactions given by actors like Dwayne Johnson and Ema Stone etc.

Audience reaction when Will Smith punched Chris Rock on Stage at the #Oscars pic.twitter.com/YTJKrdwM2U — Jack (@WestingtonJack) March 28, 2022

Fact check

After cross-checking, we learned that the picture was of Oscar 2017 when the anchor did a blunder by saying La La Land won the award for the best movie. Instead, it was meant to be the movie Moonlight, which originally won it. After the blunder cast of La La Land and other actors gave a shocked reaction, which was captured and spread on the internet.

The viral college has been made by the pictures captured in Oscar 2017 after the movie name’s blunder.

The New York Times also covered the news and tweeted about the blunder that occurred with the Oscar winner movie Moonlight.

Faces in the crowd as “Moonlight” was named best picture. In a bewildering end to the show, “La La Land” was first announced as the winner. pic.twitter.com/7bgEd3Vecj — The New York Times (@nytimes) February 27, 2017

Therefore, the claim is misleading.

Claim review: Fake pictures capturing the reaction of audiences at Oscar 2022 got viral

Claim by: Problematic Bleeder

Fact check: Misleading