If several prominent social media handles are to be believed, the Pakistani parliament echoed with pro-Modi slogans during one of its proceedings. A video clip of the parliamentary proceedings in Pakistan is viral on the internet purportedly showing its members chanting “Modi, Modi”.

The caption to one such video uploaded by BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje on her verified Twitter handle reads, “With his dedication, determination & vision for Bharat, PM Narendra Modi Ji have inspired the whole world not just India! See opposition of Pakistan parliament chanting "Modi Modi" against the ruling govt. Massive embarrassment for #Imran Khan.

advertisement With his dedication, determination & vision for Bharat, PM @narendramodi

Ji have inspired the whole world not just India!



See opposition of Pakistan parliament chanting "Modi Modi" against the ruling govt.



Massive embarassment for #ImranKhanpic.twitter.com/gbCOr6HCb1 — Shobha Karandlaje (@ShobhaBJP) October 29, 2020

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim is false. The opposition in Pakistan’s Assembly was shouting “voting, voting” for passing a resolution presented by them and not “Modi, Modi”.

Similar claims are also shared on Facebook and a few media outlets .

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here, here, here and here.

AFWA PROBE

With the help of appropriate keywords, we found that the video is from Pakistan’s National Assembly session held on October 26. A resolution was passed in the Assembly against the “blasphemous” caricature carried by French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and the recent remarks made by French President Emmanuel Macron on Islam.

We watched a longer version of the video in question. In the 17 minutes 50-second version of the parliamentary proceedings, it is clear that the members are shouting “voting” and not “Modi”.

We can also hear the Speaker calming down the members by asking them to be patient and saying that voting will take place.

AFWA also contacted Mateen Haider, a senior journalist from Pakistan who confirmed that no slogans in support of the Indian government were raised in Pakistan’s parliament.

“The only slogan that was raised mentioning Modi was ‘'Modi ka jo yaar hai, Gaddar hai gaddar hai' (Modi's friends are traitors). There were no pro-Modi slogans raised in the parliament,” Haider confirmed.

We also found a report by Dawn published on October 26 that described the parliamentary proceedings in detail.

As per the report, the Assembly witnessed a ruckus after the opposition and the government both wanted to present their own versions of the resolution condemning the publication of blasphemous sketches in France.

When Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi began to address the house, opposition leaders started chanting “voting, voting” calling for the resolution presented by their side, according to the report.

The report also mentions that PM Narendra Modi’s name cropped up during the proceedings when the ruling party accused the opposition of colluding with the Indian PM.

advertisement

Also, pro-Modi slogans raised inside Pakistan’s parliament would have made major headlines in both the countries. However, we did not find any credible news reports from India or Pakistan on the same.

Hence, it is clear that the MPs in Pakistan’s parliament were chanting “voting, voting” and not “Modi, Modi”.