The fifth International Yoga Day on Friday covered the internet with a plethora of images of people performing yoga at different locations around the world. A day before, the Indian Navy spokesperson also tweeted a pleasing picture with the hashtag #InternationalDayofYoga in which a group of people can be seen performing yoga at a beach during sunset.

advertisement

Some 10 minutes later, news agency ANI tweeted the same image, following which netizens started trolling it for posting an old picture. The archived version can be seen here.

Karnataka: Indian Navy personnel perform yoga at Kamat beach near Naval Base in Karwar pic.twitter.com/Ew6pwEVnk0 — ANI (@ANI) June 20, 2019

India Today’s Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the picture tweeted by the Indian Navy spokesperson is of last year’s International Yoga Day.

Though the tweet by the Navy and ANI does not mention the date when the picture was taken, social media users started sharing the old picture believing it to be of this year’s Yoga Day.

The caption with the Indian Navy’s tweet reads: #InternationalDayofYoga #IndianNavy personnel doing #yoga at Kamat beach in Karwar Naval Base, Karnataka. The archived version of the image can be seen here.

On reverse search, we found that on International Yoga Day last year, the same picture was tweeted by the Indian Navy spokesperson. As per the tweet, the picture is from the port city of Karwar in Karnataka.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

When pointed out, the Navy spokesperson in the next tweet admitted that the picture is of last year and regretted the goof-up.

The Indian Navy, however, did perform yoga in many places on Friday.

Yoga for Indian armed forces personnel at the first indigenously built floating dock of the Indian Navy FDN2 made this Yoga Day very special. The men & women who maintain this engineering marvel to guard the nation are the true heroes. We bow to you. -Sg @indiannavy #YogaDay2019 pic.twitter.com/pQnA8cBDOl— Sadhguru (@SadhguruJV) June 21, 2019

Sweet shot of an @IndianNavy Rajput class destroyer with #YogaDay2019 on deck this morning. pic.twitter.com/K9QD0mZUBx— Livefist (@livefist) June 21, 2019

We thus conclude that the Indian Navy had inadvertently posted last year’s International Yoga Day celebrations on Thursday.