After India's most ambitious Moon mission, Chandrayaan-2, took flight on July 22, a series of photographs have flooded social media. It is being claimed that the images of the Earth being circulated have been taken by the Chandrayaan-2.

There are multiple photographs floating on social media. We are testing some of them.

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim with the viral images is not true. So far, Chandrayaan-2 has not sent any pictures of the Earth.

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

Among others, a Facebook user "Priyabrata Dasgupta" uploaded a set of photographs of the Earth with the caption: "First photograph of earth, sent by Chandrayaan-2What an eye-catching visual it is." The photographs are being widely shared on Facebook as well as Twitter.

Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) launched Chandrayaan-2 from the spaceport of Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh. As per the latest update by Isro, the second earth-bound orbit-raising manoeuvre of the Chandrayaan-2 spacecraft has been successfully performed early on Friday (July 26) morning.

Second earth bound orbit raising maneuver for #Chandrayaan2 spacecraft has been performed today (July 26, 2019) at 0108 hrs (IST) as planned.

For details please check https://t.co/raXNQB76O6#ISRO ISRO (@isro) July 25, 2019

Chandrayaan-2 will be subjected to a series of orbit maneuvers over the coming weeks to take it to the vicinity of the Moon. The rover would touch down on the Moon's surface on September 7. Also, its objective is to land closer to the South Pole of the Moon and not to take photographs of the Earth in space.

On reverse search the viral photographs, AFWA found:

Photo 1:

This image was taken by astronauts aboard the International Space Station (ISS) of a large pluma of smoke, steam and ash erupting from the Sarychev volcano in Kuril Islands, Russia.

Photo 2:

This image is a screengrab from an animated video posted on Shutterstock with a title "flight over the morning Earth".

Photo 3:

This image is available on the internet since 2014, used by several websites and social media. However, the origin of the image is not clear.

Photo 4:

We found this image on the website of Nasa. It was posted on March 2, 2007, with the caption: "Solar Eclipse from the Moon. Illustration Credit & Copyright: Hana Gartstein".

Photo 5:

On reverse search, we found this image on Shutterstock, posted by illustrator Alan Uster. The caption to this photograph says "Planet earth with sunrise and moon in space".

Photo 6:

This photo has been cropped. We found the full version of the photograph on flickr.com with the credit to NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center Scientific Visualization Studio The Blue Marble data is courtesy of Reto Stockli (NASA/GSFC)

Also Read | Fact Check: The emotional story behind this photo is fake

Also Read | Fact Check: Viral photo of the flood is not from Bihar but Australia