An aerial view of a large complex is being shared on social media with the claim that it shows a 6,000-bed Covid care centre built by the RSS in Indore. Text superimposed on the picture reads, “2nd largest Covid care center in India. RSS has built 6000-bed Covid care centre and 4 oxygen plants in 45 acres of land in Indore”.

advertisement

Many WhatsApp and Facebook users are sharing the image. The archived version can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the image is actually of a football stadium in Qatar named Al Bayt. In Indore, a 6,000-bed capacity Covid centre was recently launched by the Madhya Pradesh government in the community satsang complex of Radha Soami Satsang Beas. Though the RSS hasn’t built this centre, its members are volunteering in it.

AFWA probe

Using reverse search, we found the viral image in a report by "Qatar Tribune". The report clearly mentions that the picture is of Al Bayt Stadium in Al Khor city of Qatar. This stadium is the venue of 2022 FIFA World Cup, as per the latter’s official website.

We compared the satellite view of Al Bayt Stadium with the viral image. Similarities between the two can be easily spotted.

The Indore Covid centre

Recently, the Radha Soami Satsang Beas ashram located on Khandwa Road in Indore was converted into Madhya Pradesh’s largest Covid care centre. As per “All India Radio”, this centre was started with 600 beds, but its capacity can be increased to 6,000.

Covid-19 nodal officer for Indore Dr Amit Malakar told us, “The Covid care centre which was recently started at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas ground was named ‘Maa Ahilya Covid Care Centre’. RSS hasn’t built it but its members are volunteering in it.”

A spokesperson of Radha Soami Satsang Beas told us, “Sometime back, one of our campuses in Delhi was converted into a Covid centre. After that, the Madhya Pradesh government approached us and told us that they are planning to start a Covid centre in Indore for patients who don’t require oxygen or hospitalisation primarily, for people who do not have home isolation facility. We gave them permission to use our community satsang complex.”

“There’s no link between the RSS and Radha Soami Satsang Beas,” the spokesperson added.

Part of the Madhya Pradesh government’s Covid-19 advisory committee and a member of RSS in Indore, Dr Nishant Khare elaborated the role of the Sangh at Maa Ahilya Covid Care Centre.

advertisement

He said, “Maa Ahilya Covid Care Centre has been launched by the Indore administration. Radha Soami Satsang Beas gave permission to use their ground. RSS, on the other hand, is providing support in the peripheral areas such as helping sevadars (people directly interacting with Covid patients), security, packing of food, etc.”

“In other words, green zone activities that do not involve patient interaction are being taken care of by RSS volunteers. Around 75 members of RSS are volunteering every day at the centre,” Khare said.

We sent the viral picture to India Today’s Indore correspondent Dharmendra Kumar Sharma. He confirmed that the picture is not of the Radha Soami Satsang Beas complex in Indore. He sent us some pictures of an aerial view of the complex. Looking at these pictures, it becomes clear that the viral image is of a completely different structure.

Therefore, it is clear that the viral picture is of Al Bayt Stadium in Qatar and not Maa Ahilya Covid Care Centre at Indore. This centre was launched by the Madhya Pradesh government at the satsang complex of Radha Saomi Satsang Beas. RSS members are volunteering at this Covid centre.

(Inputs from Anil Kumar)