Thousands of farmers are camping near Delhi, trying to make their way into the Capital, in protest against the new farm laws. Several politicians, including Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, have alleged the presence of Khalistani separatists in the farmers’ agitation.

In this context, a video showing a group of men chanting pro-Khalistan, pro-Pakistan and anti-Modi slogans is going viral on social media with the claim that it is a scene from the farmers’ protest. The men, some of whom are wearing turbans, are also seen holding Pakistani flags and Khalistani banners.

advertisement

The Hindi caption along with one such 15-second video translates to, “Raising anti-Modi slogans can be understood, but why slogans in favour of Pakistan and Khalistan? Is it farmers’ protest or Khalistani terror?”

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the video is from the ICC World Cup 2019 in the United Kingdom.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Using InVID tool and appropriate keywords, we found a clearer version of the same video uploaded by a Twitter user on June 30, 2019. In this version of the video, it can be seen that the men are raising slogans from a gallery in a stadium.

Taking a cue from this, we searched the Internet further and found the same video in a report uploaded by ANI on its official YouTube channel. The caption of the video says, “Sikhs in the UK denounce pro-Khalistan slogans during World Cup matches”.

According to the video description, some Sikhs, along with Pakistan fans, had raised pro-Khalistan and pro-Pakistan slogans during ICC World Cup 2019 matches in the UK. Here is a screengrab from the ANI report.

As per news reports, this particular incident took place during a Pakistan vs Afghanistan match on June 29, 2019.

We also found media reports on similar instances where anti-India and pro-Khalistan slogans were raised at various grounds during the ICC World Cup 2019. Many of the protesters were evicted from the stadiums.

Hence, it is clear that the viral video is over a year old and from the United Kingdom. It has nothing to do with the ongoing farmers’ protest.