On July 15, the Indian Medical Association said 1,302 doctors have been infected with Covid-19 and 99 have succumbed to the disease across the country. In this context, a picture of a doctor from AIIMS, New Delhi, is going viral with the claim that he was infected with coronavirus after giving mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to a critical Covid-19 patient.

One such claim on Facebook reads, “The man in this picture is Dr. Zahid Majeed, a doctor at AIIMS trauma center. He is now in quarantine as he is infected by #coronavirus. The reason he caught by #COVID19 is, he removed his PPE kit to give mouth to mouth resuscitation to an extremely critical Corona patient which could prevent a cardiac arrest.”

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be misleading. Neither was Dr Zahid Majeed infected with coronavirus, nor did he give mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to a Covid-19 patient.

The archived versions of some of the posts can be seen here, here and here.

AFWA probe

Dr Zahid Abdul Majeed from Jammu & Kashmir’s Anantnag district is a senior resident doctor at AIIMS. When we reached out to him, he rubbished the viral claim.

The doctor, who joined duty after 14 days of quarantine, said, “The incident they are talking about is from May 7. A Covid-19 patient was being shifted to ICU and his breathing tube was mal-positioned. I had removed my goggles and face shield for better visibility and re-intubated the patient. Without immediate intervention, the patient would have got a cardiac arrest. I never gave the patient mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.”

“After this, I went into a 14-day quarantine because I was exposed to an infected patient. Now I am back on duty. I was never tested positive for Covid-19,” Dr Zahid added.

This incident was reported by several news websites. The rumours had started after some reports said the doctor removed his personal protective equipment (PPE) to re-intubate the patient.

However, as Dr Zahid confirmed to AFWA, he was not tested positive for Covid-19. The claim that he gave mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to a coronavirus patient is also false. He had re-intubated a critical patient by removing his goggles and face shield for better visibility.