Mumbai: Home minister Amit Shah claimed on August 6, 2019, that the removal of Article 370--which gave special privileges to Jammu and Kashmir, including the right to reject certain laws passed by the Indian parliament--would propel economic growth, in turn reducing militancy and insurgency.

However, there is no direct and clear relation between the fall of insurgency and the decline of poverty in Kashmir, data show--insurgency has risen and fallen, depending on geopolitical factors, even as poverty has steadily declined.

Historically, a decline in poverty from the mid-1970s until the mid-2000s--which saw the state witnessing lower poverty rates than most other Indian states, as well as better health and nutrition outcomes--did not result in a decline in terrorism. The state's special privileges were in place from October 1949 until August 2019.

Between 1993-94 and 2011-12, the percentage of people living below the poverty line in the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) reduced from 26.3% to 8.1%, according to the Tendulkar Poverty Estimates. Yet militancy strengthened or abated, based largely on extraneous geopolitical factors, as data from the South Asia Terrorism Portal (SATP) show, and experts state.

Our analysis further shows that there has been no direct link between militancy and development--in militancy-affected districts, more households had access to electricity and sanitation, and similar development outcomes, as other regions. Development as measured by women's literacy, access to electricity, sanitation, etc. has been mostly uniform across districts in Jammu, Kashmir & Ladakh, and gaps in development outcomes between urban and rural areas are smaller than in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Assam and Bihar.

As such, reducing disaffection and integrating Kashmir with India would take more than the abrogation of Article 370 and economic measures, experts say.

"The struggle over identity takes precedence over the struggle for resources, not just in Kashmir but in many parts of the world," said Neera Chandhoke, a professor of political science and visiting faculty at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), Delhi. "Resistance towards the government will not die down with better employment opportunities."

"The issue of militancy in J&K is not a binary; it's far more complex than simply a set of economic measures to offset unemployment," said Lt Gen (retd) Syed Ata Hasnain, who headed the army's Chinar Corps in J&K and was appointed chancellor of the Central University of Kashmir in 2018. Abrogation of Article 370 could be a trigger to better integrate J&K with the rest of the country, he said, but warned, "The path is strewn with challenges and the situation has to be handled in the political, military, diplomatic, economic, social and psychological domains, simultaneously".

Further, the Indian government's decision does not change Pakistan's stance on the issue. "Pakistan's concept of proxy war to wrest J&K has not ceased with the decisions taken by our Government," Hasnain said. India's economic efforts to improve the quality of life would reduce alienation among the people, and help neutralise Pakistan's ability to pursue a proxy war in the state, he said.

In addition to economic growth, people must have the right to live with respect and dignity and ensure their economic well-being through better employment and income opportunities, said M M Ansari, former member of the University Grants Commission, a former Central Information Commissioner, who was appointed as one of the special interlocutors to J&K in 2010.

Poverty fell by 2/3rd between 1993-94 and 2011-12, yet militancy grew

"A system which denied due rights to our brothers and sisters of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh; a system which was a huge hurdle in their development has now been eradicated," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a speech on August 8, 2019.

In 1993-94, 26% of J&K's population lived below the poverty line which dropped to, as we said, 8.1% in 2011-12, the latest available data. In comparison, the proportion of people living under the poverty line nationwide reduced by a smaller margin, from 45.3% in 1993-94 to 21.9% in 2011-12, data show.

"Lack of development in J&K is a myth," said Ajai Sahni, PhD, executive director of the Institute of Conflict Management in Delhi. "The development is apparent to anyone except those who have never visited the state. The average Kashmiri is much better off compared to a person in many parts of the country."

No Relationship Between Violence & Development in J&K Year Poverty (%) Deaths due to militancy (security forces, civilians and militants) 1993-94 26.3 2567 2004-05 13.2 1964 2009-10 9.5 381 2011-12 8.1 164

Source: South Asia Terrorism Portal

As the poverty rate in the state reduced, education and health outcomes improved, and are better than several other Indian states, but this was not accompanied by a similar improvement in per capita income, investment and employment opportunities.

The per capita net state domestic product (roughly the state's per-person income) is Rs 62,145, half of that in other states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand. In April 2019, the unemployment rate in Jammu and Kashmir was 10.62%, higher than the average unemployment rate in the country (7.35%) in the same period, according to data released by Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy, a business information company, based in Mumbai.

Militancy-affected districts have better access to sanitation, health facilities

The esrtwhile undivided state of J&K had three administrative and revenue divisions--Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. Ladakh, consisting of the districts of Leh and Kargil, lies in the north-east. In the south-west is Jammu and the terrain of its 10 districts varies from snow-capped hills to plains bordering Punjab. Kashmir, situated in the valley of the Pir Panjal mountain range and the Himalayas, consists of 10 districts administered by India, and 10 districts administered by Pakistan.

Jammu, with a population of around 600,000, as per the 2011 census, is the winter capital of the state, while the city of Srinagar (population of 1.1 million) in Kashmir is its summer capital.