Even after two days of Pakistan’s massive defeat to India in their World Cup 2019 fixture, the cricket-crazy fans are having a field day on social media. Among the unending jokes and memes, the latest to catch everybody’s attention is a picture that shows protesters holding a banner saying, We Don’t Want Kashmir, Give Us Virat Kohli. In the background of the photograph, protesters can be seen holding a Pakistan flag.

advertisement Ab Khush pic.twitter.com/rfCpIyeYNE— Ibn Sina (@Ibne_Sena) June 17, 2019

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral photograph is doctored. Everything is the same in the original photo except the text on the banner which reads: We Want Azaadi.

Twitter user Ibn Sina posted the photo on Monday (June 17) which was retweeted by at least 690 people and liked by more than 3,000 users at the time of filing the story. The archived image of the tweet can be seen here.

A Twitter user called Modiwoodcrazies too posted the same tweet a few days ago while replying to the International Cricket Council. The user wrote a message saying, Funny begger (sic) country pakistan.

Writer and academic Madhu Kishwar also tweeted the photograph along with the message: At one time Pakistanis used to chant, "Madhuri de do, POK bhi le lo". New ambitions, new frustrations. Kishwar’s tweet was retweeted more than 500 times and liked by over 2,000 users. The archived image of the tweet can be seen here.

Kishwar was badly trolled for her tweet after which she wrote, 1.Why are #Sickularists going ballistic over my statement that at1 time Pakis used to chant--Madhuri de do,POK bhi le lo"? This was Vajpayee era, if I remember right. That photoshopped image was clearly meant to tease Pakis over their frustration in losing cricket match to India.

2.Just as "We want Azadi" banner was kiddish photo op,not real demonstration, so also"Give us Virat Kohli"is naughty tease at Pakis breaking into mass hysteria & depression over loss of match against India.Even a joke at Pakis gets #PaidSickularHirelings go berserk.Speaks volumes, she said in another tweet.

AFWA did a reverse search of the image and found that the original photograph is from the 2016 Kashmir unrest which took place after the killing of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani. The original banner used by the protesters said: We Want Azaadi.

The original picture with banners and news about this can be read here.

In 2017, SM Hoax Slayer had written about the Twitter user who had photoshopped the original image.