The viral video is the trailer of “The Tashkent Files” directed by Vivek Agnihotri released in 2019.

The film “The Kashmir Files” directed by Vivek Agnihotri has been among the top trends on social media and topic of discussion and debates on the mainstream media. The film is based on the exodus of Kashmiri Hindus during the Kashmir insurgency.

Social Media users have been discussing various topics on which Vivek Agnihotri can make his next film. Meanwhile, the trailer of The Tashkent Files movie is being circulating on social media. Some users claim that after ‘The Kashmir Files’, Vivek Agnihotri is going to release ‘The Tashkent Files’ now. The movie revolves around India’s former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri’s death in Tashkent, the capital city of modern day Uzbekistan.

The caption reads, “After “Kashmir File” get ready to see another blast!! Tashkent File!!”

Facebook Post | Archive Link

Fact Check-

We started our investigation by running a keyword search on YouTube; it led us to the trailer of The Tashkent Files premiered by Zee Studios on 25 March 2019. The caption of the video reads, “The Tashkent Files | Official Trailer | Vivek Agnihotri | Releasing 12th April.”

The Tashkent Files is a 2019 Indian Hindi-language thriller film about the death of former Prime Minister of India, Lal Bahadur Shastri.

We found several tweets by director Vivek Agnihotri after the release of Tashkent Files in April 2019. He stated that the movie has an overwhelming response after releasing in 250 screens. He posted the poster of the film the Tashkent Files as well.

Extremely happy to inform that despite a limited release on 250 screens #TheTashkentFiles has grown phenomenally over the weekend. Every day collections doubled due to strong word of mouth. This shows people believe in #RightToTruth

Pl see it today if you haven’t seen it as yet. pic.twitter.com/oSMWGu0T0f — Vivek Ranjan Agnihotri (@vivekagnihotri) April 15, 2019

Great news. #TheTashkentFiles sees 100% growth on Saturday. An unprecedented phenomenon for a small film that released only on 250 screens. It’s receiving strong love of people. Please spread word on all your groups and support this film on Lal Bahadur Shastri’s mysterious death. pic.twitter.com/w1arGSu1dq — Vivek Ranjan Agnihotri (@vivekagnihotri) April 14, 2019

The Hindustan Times published their film review on the Tashkent Files on 12 April 2019. They wrote, “A host of worthy actors including Pankaj Tripathi and Naseeruddin Shah are wasted in this political propaganda on PM Lal Bahadur Shastri’s death.”

Conclusion-

Fact Crescendo found the claim made along with the viral video on social media to be False. The Tashkent Files is not an upcoming film by Vivek Agnihotri after the Kashmir Files. The Tashkent Files was released on 12 April 2019.