As more cases of the new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are reported worldwide, misinformation about the pathogen is also spreading unabated. A release with the letterhead of Saint Luke’s Hospital in Kansas City, USA, is going viral on social media. It claims that consuming alcohol may help reduce the risk of a Covid-19 infection, and that vodka is "the most recommended" substance for "drinking, cleaning and sanitising".

advertisement

Take a look.

Image posted on Facebook/AfterDrinkingConfessions.

India Today's Anti-Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that Saint Luke's Hospital hasn't released any such advisory and that the viral post is false.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The Facebook page, 'After Drinking Confessions' shared the advisory, dated March 7, 2020, which states: "After extensive research, our findings show that consuming alcoholic beverages may help reduce the risk of infection by the novel coronavirus; Covid-19. Vodka is the most recommended for drinking, cleaning and sanitizing."

But we found a Facebook post from the hospital (Saint Luke's Health System/@saintlukeskc) saying that the report circulating on social media is false and that it is following guidlines from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

CAN VODKA BE USED AS A HAND SANITISER?

There are multiple recipes showing netizens how to make their own sanitiser using vodka, including one from Tito’s Handmade Vodka.

But Tito’s Vodka has asked the public not to use their product to make hand sanitiser as the CDC says sanitiser needs to contain at least 60% alcohol.

Tito’s Handmade Vodka is 40% alcohol.

Per the CDC, hand sanitizer needs to contain at least 60% alcohol. Tito's Handmade Vodka is 40% alcohol, and therefore does not meet the current recommendation of the CDC. Please see attached for more information. pic.twitter.com/OMwR6Oj28Q TitosVodka (@TitosVodka) March 5, 2020

IndiaToday.in has plenty of resources to help you better understand the coronavirus outbreak and take necessary precautions. Learn about hand and respiratory hygiene, explore our glossary, track the epidemic though visualised statistics, and get the latest updates.