Diwali is over but fireworks on social media continue, literally!

Many netizens have posted a video on Facebook, which purportedly looks like brilliant fireworks in the night sky, beautifully synchronised with music and sound. They claim this is from Borivali West in Mumbai.

Several Facebook users such as "Avantika Pruthi" and "Thiruavai Seithi" have posted this video with a similar caption: "1 min, 45 seconds of fireworks in Borivali West, Mumbai. This show is the first of its kind in the world (spherical pyrotechnics). One of the World’s best fireworks display."

advertisement

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found this to be a misleading claim. This is not a video of actual fireworks but a digital creation with the help of a fireworks simulation software called "FWsim".

This 1-minute-45-second video, along with similar claims, is viral on Facebook.

Many people had earlier claimed this to be fireworks at Mount Fuji in Japan.

.

This video has been available on YouTube for a long time. In one such video uploaded last year, a viewer commented that it was made with the help of "FWsim".

FWsim is a simulation software where anyone can create digital fireworks of their choice and creativity.

With the help of InVID reverse image search, we found that in 2014, this video was uploaded on Dailymotion, a video-sharing technology platform. But it was claimed in Turkish language that this was an original fireworks video.

In 2013, the same video went viral with the claim that this was New Year fireworks in China’s Hunan province.

We found fact-checking website Snopes published an article on this video in 2015.

The original video was created and uploaded on January 3, 2013, by a YouTuber called "mediabyjj". He said he created this video with the help of FWsim software on the occasion of New Year, and it took him nearly a week to create this digital artwork.

Therefore, we can say that this video is nearly seven years old and is not related to Mumbai. In fact, it is not a video of original fireworks but a digital creation with the help of simulation software.

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Viral image of PM Narendra Modi wearing keffiyeh is photoshopped

ALSO WATCH: Fact Check: Video showing rocket launches by Indian Army has nothing to do with PoK