Photos of a woman crying with a child and men carrying burnt copies of the Quran are being circulated on social media with the claim that they are from a recent unrest in Tripura.

Recently, several reports of clashes between different communities were reported from the north-eastern state. Soon after, these images were shared widely.

One such post can be seen below.

advertisement

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here and here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim along with the images is misleading. While the first photo is of a Rohingya Muslim woman detained by the Border Security Force (BSF) at the India-Bangladesh border, the second is from a blaze at a Rohingya refugee camp at Kanchan Kunj in Delhi.

AFWA probe

Image 1

With the help of a reverse search on Google, we found the first image carried by multiple media outlets on reports about the Rohingya crisis. The image has been used with credit to Reuters and is at least from 2019.

After a further search, we found the same image carried by Reuters on January 22, 2019. According to the description provided by Reuters, the photo shows a Rohingya Muslim woman detained by BSF soldiers while crossing the border from Bangladesh at Raimura village on the outskirts of Tripura capital Agartala.

Image 2

We found the same image of men carrying burnt copies of the Quran uploaded along with a set of other photos by independent journalist and founder of an NGO (Miles2Smile) working for victims of violence - Aasif Mujtaba on his Facebook and Instagram profile on June 13. According to Aasif’s post, the image is from a blaze that happened in June 2021 at a Rohingya settlement at Kanchan Kunj in Delhi.

When AFWA reached out to Aasif, he told us that the images were clicked by photojournalist Md Meharban who was present during relief operations after blaze at Kanchan Kunj. We then contacted Md Meharban who confirmed to us that the images were indeed clicked by him.

After the photo started circulating with the claim that it was from Tripura, Aasif also reposted the same set of images on Twitter and clarified that the images are from a Rohingya refugee camp in Delhi, and not Tripura.

These images are from the recent fire mishap at Rohingya Refugee camp at Kanchan Kunj, New Delhi and not from Tripura. We got these images when @miles2smile_ started the relief work in June this year.

Kindly do not share the misinformation #TripuraAntiMuslimRiots pic.twitter.com/T0voGcTLtU — Aasif Mujtaba (@MujtabaAasif) October 28, 2021

advertisement

The Rohingya refugee camp fire of June 12 was reported by multiple media houses. The incident had burned down the temporary houses of around 53 families. No casualties were reported.

Unrest in Tripura

Recently, a mosque, some shops, and houses owned by members of the Muslim community were allegedly vandalised during a Vishwa Hindu Parishad rally in North Tripura’s Panisagar. To bring the situation under control, the local administration has now imposed restrictions under Section 144 CrPC in Panisagar and neighbouring Dharmanagar. However, the Tripura Police on Thursday said that the law-and-order situation in the state is "absolutely normal" and no mosque was set on fire there.

It is, however, clear that the images in circulation are old and not from Tripura.