Spread the truth:

A set of photos of a girl hanging from a tree is viral claimed as her being an 8 year old, raped and killed by Naseer Khan in Rajasthan.

Viral text:

“8 वर्षीय बच्ची,सपोटरा,राजस्थान में #नसीर_खान ने #बलात्कार के बाद हत्या कर शव पेड़ से लटका दिया. क्या राजस्थान सरकार की आत्मा मर चुकी है? कहाँ है वाड्राइन? क्या अपराध और सियासत र्सिफ यूपी के लिए हैं जो झंडा उठा के आ जाती हैऐसे नरभक्षी को फाँसी होनी चाहिए?”

Translation: “An 8 year old girl in Sapotra, Rajasthan was raped, killed and her corpse was hung upon a tree by Naseer Khan. Is Rajastan Goverment’s soul, dead ? Where is Mrs. Vadra ? Is crime and politics only for UP where people come raising flags asking hanging for cannibal?”

It’s also viral claimed as the girl to be a ‘Dalit’

This is tweeted mostly by fake twitter handles using name of females

Fake account of Kangana Ranawat which has blocked us, the fact checkers. The tweet has been retweeted by around 1K people

archive

WhatsApp

TRUTH

The photos are one year old, victim was 19 year old, not 8 years and was killed by her lover of same religion.

Viral false text – “8 वर्षीय बच्ची,सपोटरा,राजस्थान में #नसीर_खान ने #बलात्कार के बाद हत्या कर शव पेड़ से लटका दिया. क्या राजस्थान सरकार की आत्मा मर चुकी है? कहाँ है वाड्राइन? क्या अपराध और सियासत र्सिफ यूपी के लिए हैं जो झंडा उठा के आ जाती हैऐसे नरभक्षी को फाँसी होनी चाहिए?”

Point wise fake news and it’s truth –

False – 8 वर्षीय बच्ची (8 year old kid)

Truth – She was 19 years old, her name was Pooja Meena

False – नसीर_खान (Naseer Khan) raped and killed her

Truth – Same religion – Mahendra Meena, victim’s lover

False – Viral now, claimed as recent.

Truth – These photos and news is from 22nd June 2019 i.e one year old

on 21st Night, Pooja Meena went out in the night for defecation alone when Mahendra Meena strangled her leading to her death, torn her kurta and used it for hanging her to make it look like a suicide.

The Lallantop did reported this last year

Hindustan Times reported –

“A 19-year-old woman was allegedly murdered and then hanged from a tree in an isolated forest area near Sapotara town of Rajasthan’s Karauli district, police said on Saturday.

The victim was allegedly strangled first and then hanged from the tree at Bapoti village, police said. When some people were passing through the area on Friday, they saw the body of the young woman hanging from the tree.

Police circulated the picture of the woman among locals. After hours, the victim was identified as Pooja Meena.

Station house officer (SHO) of Sapotara police station Bhanwarlal Boonkar said the victim was a native of Gajjupura village and around 12.30am on Friday she had gone to relieve herself in nearby fields, but she didn’t come back. “The locals informed us about a body hanging from a tree after which police reached the spot along with a team of forensic experts and collected evidence. Deceased’s father has alleged that some unidentified person abducted her, raped her and then killed her,” said Boonkar. Police said that according to initial enquiry, it seems to be a case of murder.”

A website,“Documenting Reality” has a complete set of photos and observation of the crime written in detail.

A follow up on this crime was reported by Hindi Daily – Dainik Bhaskar, they reported the murder was Mahendra Meena (Not Naseer Khan as claimed in viral messages)

This was viral last year too, following post is by “Free Lanst Janrliest”

More Fake tweets

https://twitter.com/Nizam_Khan786/status/1275046499093639168

Related