A video apparently showing Priyanka Gandhi sweeping a rangoli design of the Congress party symbol is making rounds on social media. It has been shared with quirky captions equating it as a step towards “Congress-free” India.

Fact Crescendo received many fact-check requests about this video on our WhatsApp FactLine (9049053770).

Readers must note that the viral video is edited and misleading.

WHAT’S THE CLAIM?

In a 15-second clip, Priyanka Gandhi is seen sweeping the floor of a room where the Congress party symbol has been created using rangoli .

While sharing this clip users quoted – “कांग्रेस मुक्त भारत बनाने के लिए स्वच्छ भारत अभियान चलाया प्रियंका गांधी ने” (Priyanka Gandhi initiated the “Swachh Bharat Mission” to make India “Congress-free”)

The same video is widely shared on Facebook as well

Facebook

FACT CHECK

With a keyword search, we came across a video shared by the official Congress Twitter account on 4 October 2021.

It is a similar video of Priyanka Gandhi sweeping the floor. But the notable difference is that there was no rangoli present in the original video.

According to media reports, Priyanka Gandhi and others were detained early Monday morning en route to Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people, including four farmers, were killed in violent clashes on Sunday.

Priyanka Gandhi was then taken to a guest house in Sitapur, where she was seen sweeping the floor using a broom.

Priyanka Gandhi detained on way to meet #LakhimpurKheri violence victims, sweeps floor of guest house in which she has been kept. Listen in as BJP's @gauravbh reacts to the same. #ITVideo pic.twitter.com/GTRbsTyNDB — IndiaToday (@IndiaToday) October 4, 2021

A similar video was also tweeted by journalists and news websites.

We made a comparison video below in which you can see the difference between the original video and the viral video.

In the viral video, the rangoli of Congress party logo has been digitally added to the original video and shared with misleading claims.

ALSO READ: A poster demanding “Muslim nation” in Priyanka Gandhi’s protest was morphed

CONCLUSION

A digitally manipulated video has been shared to portray that Priyanka Gandhi was sweeping away the Congress party symbol rangoli.

We rate this post Altered Video.