A heart-wrenching image of a man carrying a baby covered in blood is circulating on social media. Netizens are sharing this image with the hashtag #YemenUnderAttack, implying that it is related to the recent airstrike by the Saudi-led coalition. The January 21 airstrike on a prison in Saada killed more than 80 people, including children.

One Twitter user posted the picture with the caption, “How can I sleep when my people are bleeding #YemenUnderAttack”. Some netizens have also used hashtags such as #yemenisbleeding and #yemenGenocide.

advertisement

The airstrike on Saada is part of a bigger conflict between the Houthis of Yemen, who now control most of the country, and the Saudi-led coalition, which is backing the official Yemeni government.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the picture in circulation is around six years old and from Syria. It was taken after airstrikes on a medical centre at Bustan el Kasr region of Aleppo.

AFWA probe

Reverse-searching the viral image, we found it in a 2016 report by a website called “wnycstudios.org”. Here, the picture has been credited to “Getty Images”.

This clue led us to the “Getty Images” website where the picture has been credited to Syrian photographer Beha el Halebi. As per the picture description, the image shows a man carrying an injured child after helicopters targeted a medical centre at Bustan el Kasr region of Aleppo, Syria, on April 29, 2016.

As per a report published in “The New York Times”, the Syrian army and rebels had unleashed deadly attacks on each other in the Syrian city of Aleppo in April 2016. There were airstrikes by the army that demolished a hospital on the insurgent-held side and retaliatory mortar assaults by rebels on the government-held side. At least 27 people, including three children and six staff members, were reported killed in the strike on the hospital.

To sum up, a six-year-old picture from the Syrian civil war is being falsely shared in the context of the ongoing conflict in Yemen.

READ: Fact Check: Old images linked to deadly Yemen airstrike that killed over 80

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Old video from Afghanistan passed off as Pakistan’s atrocities in Balochistan

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Animation video circulated as Indian satellite's collision with International Space Station