Discussions on Vivek Agnihotri's new film 'The Kashmir Files', which tackles the exodus of Kashmiri Hindus in the 1990s and insurgency in the state, has dominated social media in the last few days.

Amid praise and criticism of the film, a video went viral with the claim that it showed veteran Bharatiya Janata Party leader LK Advani at a movie theatre, overcome with emotion after watching the film.

advertisement

BJP leader Manish Grover, among others, shared the video with the aforementioned claim on his verified Facebook page.

The archived versions of similar posts can be seen here, here and here.

The India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found that the claim along with the video was misleading. This video is from the screening of the movie 'Shikara' in 2020.

AFWA probe

We noticed that many social media users pointed out the video in circulation was old. With the help of a keyword search, we found the same video and screenshots from it carried by several news reports in 2020. As per the reports, the video of Advani breaking down is from the screening of the Vidhu Vinod Chopra-directed film ‘Shikara’. This movie was based on the exodus of Kashmiri Hindus in the 90s as well.

The video was also tweeted by Chopra himself in February 2020. “Shri LK Advani at the special screening of #Shikara. We are so humbled and grateful for your blessings and your appreciation for the film Sir,” the director wrote while sharing the video.

Shri L K Advani at the special screening of #Shikara We are so humbled and grateful for your blessings and your appreciation for the film Sir. @foxstarhindi @rahulpandita pic.twitter.com/oUeymMayhc — Vidhu Vinod Chopra Films (@VVCFilms) February 7, 2020

In a February 2020 interview, Chopra also spoke about his relationship with Advani and how the BJP leader had helped him financially in the early years of his career. He said that this was the reason he sent Advani a special invitation for the special screening of ‘Shikara’.

Moreover, we couldn’t find any credible report about Advani attending the screening of ‘The Kashmir Files’. The official Twitter handle of Vivek Agnihotri has no mention of the veteran leader attending the film’s screening.

With the available information, it is clear that the video of Advani breaking down at the movie theatre is from the screening of ‘Shikara’, and not related to ‘The Kashmir Files’.

(With inputs from Anil Kumar in New Delhi)