Correction: Some readers pointed out that the image that we concluded to be from Kuwait on the basis of media reports, is actually from Dubai. Another fact check organisation got a bigger and un-cropped version of this picture and they also geo-located this place to Dubai. We have made necessary amendments in the story.

At a time governments and health experts around the world are stressing on social distancing to contain the spread of coronavirus, a photo of Muslims offering namaaz in groups on rooftops has gone viral on social media.

advertisement

Many on social media thought the picture to be from India. The photo is going viral on Twitter and Facebook with the caption, “When about them, Narendra Modi ji? They least care for your request, appeal, etc. Will they also face the law, since they don’t seem to obey the law atleast willingly”. The archived version of the post can be seen here.

On the other hand, many, including filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri, are wondering as to where the image is from.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the photo to be false. This photo of namaaz in groups is from Dubai. However, similar incidents have been reported in India too.

AFWA probe

Using reverse search, we found that an Arabic website “HowiyaPress” had used this picture in an article dated April 13, 2020. The translation of this article says that the photo was taken in a town called Jleeb Al-Shuyoukh in Kuwait.

A news portal called “Khalejia News” had tweeted the video showing Muslims offering prayers in groups on rooftops. Here too, the caption says it is Jleeb Al-Shuyoukh town in Kuwait.

An article by “Arab News” dated April 9 says Jleeb Al-Shuyoukh is under two-week complete isolation due to the spread of Covid-19.

Similar cases in India

Though this particular photo is from Dubai, similar incidents have been reported in India as well. A report by “Dainik Bhaskar” says that a few days back, some people gathered on a rooftop for namaaz in Kannauj, Uttar Pradesh. When police tried to stop them, they were attacked and some received injuries too.

However, it is clear that the viral photo of Muslims offering namaaz in groups on rooftops was taken in Dubai and not India.

(With inputs from Saurabh Bhatnagar)