Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has been constituted for the selection of administrative officers in India. Candidates who pass the UPSC exam are selected for all the administrative posts in the country including IAS, IPS, and IFS. Further, the UPSC exam is famous for being the toughest competitive exam in the world. In stage two of this examination, candidates are given the option to choose the subject of their choice as an optional subject to write the examination. Meanwhile, a claim is going viral on social media about the subjects covered for the UPSC exam. Users are claiming that UPSC has included the subject ‘ Islamic Studies ‘ in their syllabus. Apart from this, users are also asking that if the UPSC exam can be given from the subject of Islamic studies, then why are the subjects of Vedic studies, Ramayana, and Gita studies can not included?

Moreover, a page named Sarva Hindu Parishad shared a post on Facebook on April 17. In which they wrote – “ If #Islamic Studies can make IAS”. So the study of Vedas, Ramayana, Geeta, and Upanishad should also be included in the UPSC exam. Why so much hatred for only Sanatan Dharma.. ?? I know for one thing, that no Sanatani will take this matter very seriously, but it is very important for all of you to awaken consciousness in your inner being. There must be someone who will think about this! It is with this intention that I am publishing this post.”

Fact Check:

Firstly , we did a Google search to investigate the claim going viral on social media . But we could not find any information about the inclusion of Islamic studies in UPSC there. After that we checked the topics available on the UPSC website. In which no separate information was found about the subject of Islamic studies anywhere. Although Urdu literature is definitely a subject.

At the same time, IAS Somesh Upadhyay has also denied the news of the inclusion of this Islamic studies on social media. He wrote sarcastically – “ There is a parallel universe , where UPSC offers Islamic studies as an optional subject . It is called WhatsApp Universe . ,

Also Read: List Of Fabricated stories of Sudhir Chaudhary and Zee News.

Conclusion:

This fact check proves that the claims of social media users are false and misleading. This has nothing to do with the truth, as the subject of Islamic Studies is not included as an optional in UPSC exam .

Claim- Islamic Studies subject included in UPSC exam

Claimant- Social media users

Fact Check – False and Deceptive