The relationship between BJP MLA Rajesh Mishra's daughter Sakshi and a Dalit boy Ajitesh has been making headlines over the past few days after the girl accused her father and his goons of threatening them. But this isn't the only controversy surrounding the politician from Bareilly.

A social media post has been going viral showing a collage of two pictures wherein a girl is kissing two boys. Facebook page 'Jay bhim' and other social media users claim that one of the boys is the son of Rajesh Mishra. However, it is not clear from the claims as to which of the two boys is being referred to as Sakshi's brother.

advertisement

India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral pictures are from Colombia and has nothing to do with the MLA's son.

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

The viral post has a caption in Hindi along with the photo collage that translates to: "Rajesh Mishra's younger son is taking a kiss and also giving his friend a chance to kiss the girl. Isn't this girl also someone's daughter? Does only an MLA have respect and a common person does not?"

According to media reports, Rajesh Mishra has two daughters and a son named Vicky.

To find the truth behind the viral post, we ran a reverse search on one of the images and found a tweet from Twitter handle @bazilkhann. This tweet from July 13 too had the same photo collage but with the caption: "My best friend and I love the same girl, we don't fight, we come to an agreement because that's what friendship is all about."

This Twitter handle is being operated from Karachi in Pakistan. We contacted @bazilkhann who told us that he found the images on the Internet and made a meme out of it. He doesn't personally know any of them.

On close observation, we found "Cine Colombia" written behind the trio in the photo. We ran a search on the Internet with keywords "Cine Colombia in Mall" and found the images of Cosmocentro mall in Colombia.

On comparing one of the images of the mall with the viral image, we found similarities in the flooring, pillar and the logo of Cine Colombia. On the basis of this comparison, we can say that the image was clicked in this mall in Colombia.

We searched the viral image once again by adding "Colombia" to the keywords. This time we found the images on Facebook, posted by user "Cuckismo Cultural" on July 8.

The caption to this post was in Portuguese that roughly translates to: "Me, my wife and her boyfriend". However, the images used with this post were cropped from the originals, which indicate that this too is not the original source of the images. We could not establish the identity of the trio whose pictures are being shared with different claims.

It is, however, clear that the viral photo has nothing to do with MLA Rajesh Mishra's son Vicky.