A ventilator photo, with ‘PM CARES’ written over it, is being shared on social media with a claim that it is an edited photo. It is being claimed that, in the original photo, ‘PM CARES’ is not written over the ventilator and it was added using a photo-editing tool – ‘Photoshop’. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.

The archived version of the post can be found here.

Claim: ‘PM CARES’ sticker on this ventilator is photoshopped. Fact: When similar photos and videos of ventilators with the logos of ‘Bharat Electronics Limited’ and ‘Skanray’ companies are observed, it can be seen that ‘PM CARES’ is written over the ventilators. So, the ventilator was bought using the ‘PM CARES’ fund. Hence the claim made is FALSE.

In the posted collage, it is being claimed that the ventilator photo with ‘PM CARES’ is an edited one. While it is true that the text – ‘PM CARES’ can be inserted onto the ventilator photo using the Photoshop software, it is equally true that the text – ‘PM CARES’ can be removed from the ventilator photo using the same software (the process of removal of the name can be watched in the gif below). So, just by looking at two photos in the collage, it is difficult to conclude which is the real one.

But, on the ventilator, the logos of ‘Bharat Electronics Limited’ and ‘Skanray’ companies can be seen. Many other similar ventilators with the same company logos were found to be posted on social media which have ‘PM CARES’ written over them. Those posts can be seen here and here.

Also, Harsh Sanghavi, a BJP member and Surat MLA, has tweeted a video with the description that Surat city has received 25 ventilators from the ‘PM CARES’ fund. In the video, it can be seen that the ventilators have ‘PM CARES’ written over them. A doctor has also tweeted that the ventilators are currently being manufactured against the government order.

My #PMCARES



Surat is fortunate to have received 25 ventilators from #PMCaresFund.



Thanking PM Shri @narendramodi Ji for looking after the welfare of patients and providing them with the best. pic.twitter.com/752KrzNQNE — Harsh Sanghavi (@sanghaviharsh) June 15, 2020

‘ANI’ has also reported that a senior government official has told them that, under the ‘Make in India’ initiative, ‘Bharat Electronics Limited’ in collaboration with ‘Skanray’ has been given orders for 30,000 ventilators. It has also reported that ‘in the first slot, about 3000 ventilators have been distributed to States’. So, the ventilator was bought using the ‘PM CARES’ funds.

To sum it up, the ventilator photo, with ‘PM CARES’ written over it, is not photoshopped.

Did you watch our new video?