Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Prayagraj to attend the Kumbh Mela, a post on social media went viral with the claim that "Harvard University says Maha Kumbh Mela was better organised than 2014 FIFA World Cup". Many netizens gave its credit to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.

India Today Anti Fake News War room (AFWA) has found that the viral post is misleading.

advertisement

The Harvard University report they are referring to is about the Maha Kumbh organised in 2013 and not the ongoing Ardh Kumbh Mela.

Facebook page 'India Against Presstitutes' posted a screenshot of an article with the headline: Harvard University Says Maha Kumbh Mela Was Better Organised Than 2014 FIFA World Cup". The post has a caption which reads, How many times have you see world appreciating an Indian tradition to this extent? This is an example of what true leaders can do! #ModiKumbhVisit."

Hundreds of people shared this post.

Screenshot of the Facebook post.

A Twitter user, Abhishekh Mishra, posted the same message referring to Harvard University and gave the credit to UP CM Yogi Adityanth for the Maha Kumbh. This post was retweeted by more than thousand people and liked by over 2,000.

Harvard University says Maha Kumbh Mela was better organised than the 2014 FIFA World Cup and Credit goes to our Staunch Hindu CM @myogiadityanath Ji. Abhishek Mishra (@Abhishek_Mshra) February 22, 2019



There are other Facebook users such as Naveen Prakash Upadhyay, Mriganka Chakravarty and Shubh Pandit who posted the same viral message which reads, Harvard University says Maha Kumbh Mela was better organised than the 2014 FIFA World Cup take a bow Yogi ji."

We searched on the Internet with the viral message - Harvard University says Maha Kumbh Mela was better organised than the 2014 FIFA World Cup - and found the same article on news portal Storypick.

Screenshot of the Storypick story.

The article was published on August 21, 2015, and it talks about the Maha Kumbh of 2013. It says Harvard University compared the three mega-events -- FIFA World Cup of 2014, Maha Kumbh of 2013 and Commonwealth Games of 2010. They found that among them Maha Kumbh of 2013 was better managed in comparison to the other two.

The same news report was also published in The Times of India on August 20, 2015. The report says the researchers of the South Asia Institute of the Harvard University, US, have viewed the successful management of Maha Kumbh 2013 in their book which was launched by chief minister Akhilesh Yadav".

advertisement

In 2013, Akhilesh Yadav was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh who organised the Maha Kumbh and Manmohan Singh was the prime minister of the country under the Congress rule.

Hence, the viral post is clearly misleading as it is referring to an article which is talking about Maha Kumbh of 2013 and not the 2019 Ardh Kumbh at Prayagraj.