Emotions ran high on social media and outside as India and Pakistan clashed with each other in the ICC World Cup at Old Trafford Cricket Ground, Manchester, on Sunday.



But for some netizens like author Tarek Fatah, the josh was too high to distinguish facts from fiction. Tarek Fatah is a Pakistan-born author and journalist who stays in Canada.



Just a day before the iconic India-Pakistan cricket match, Fatah had tweeted a picture saying that Pakistan captain Sarfaraz Ahmed has brought out "their 13th Man, a Mullah to bless the pitch for tomorrow's match against India".



The picture he shared was featuring Sarfraz Ahmed, Micky Arthur, and former Pakistan cricketer Inzamam-ul-Haq.

advertisement

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Are Londoners dancing to Bhojpuri number 'Lollypop Lagelu' during World Cup?

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found Fatah's claim to be misleading. It was not a "13th Man, a Mullah" who is present in the picture. The bearded man who looks like a Muslim cleric is the former legendary Pakistan batsman Inzamam-ul-Haq, who is presently the chief selector of Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB).

The @CricketWcup2019 witnesses a bizarre spectacle only Pakistanis can offer. Capt. @SarfarazA_54 Ahmed brings out their 13th Man, a Mullah to bless the pitch for tomorrow's match against India. Thank you @Sachin_anshu06 for sharing this gem. #INDvsPAK #PAKvsIND #WorldCup2019 pic.twitter.com/MtpAngKDun Tarek Fatah (@TarekFatah) June 15, 2019

Fatah's post has been liked by nearly 7,000 people and retweeted by more than 2,000 users. Fatah apparently shared the picture which was originally posted by one user Sachin Singh.

Fatah even congratulated the user on Twitter for "sharing this gem".

There are other users who have also shared this same photo on Facebook with similar misleading claims. User Francois Gautier shared Fatah's tweet with caption- "NO COMMENT - EXCEPT, IMAGINE THE OUTCRY IF THE INDIAN CRICKET TEAM HAD BROUGH A BRAMIN TO DO PUJA ON THE PITCH! NO ?????" (sic)

Another Facebook user, Parthiban Shanmugam has also posted similar content.

Many people have commented and slammed Fatah for this misleading post on Twitter. The particular photograph was originally taken by news agency AFP and used by leading newspapers like The Times of India with the caption "Sarfaraz Ahmed, Inzamam-ul-Haq and Mickey Arthur at Old Trafford Cricket Stadium in Manchester. (AFP Photo)" on June 15, 2019.

The weather forecast for Manchester was mixed as there were predictions of light showers on Saturday and Sunday. So before the big game on Sunday, Inzamam-ul-Haq, chief selector of PCB, along with Captain Sarfaraz Ahmed and Coach Mickey Arthur took a hard look at the pitch at Old Trafford cricket stadium. The AFP picture caught this moment on the pitch.

Former Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq who is seen in beard and in traditional Pakistani attire in the viral picture had turned religious for many years. A controversy erupted surrounding his religious belief during his captaincy.

advertisement

But the recent post by Tarek Fatah about Pakistan cricket team is far from the truth.

WATCH | Fact Check: Did this man kill his friend for PUBG?