Earlier this week, a video went viral on social media showing an elderly man being assaulted by a group of people at Loni near Delhi. In a different video, the man claimed the attackers chopped his beard and asked him to chant "Jai Shri Ram". Police have dismissed any communal angle, saying it was personal rivalry. In fact, some of the accused are Muslims too.

advertisement

Now, a video showing a large number of people dragging two men out of a building and thrashing them with sticks is circulating on social media with the claim that this was how the public retaliated against the Loni incident accused.

The caption in Hindi along with the video translates to, "Brothers, see the consequences of cutting off the beard. One of the four accused was caught by police, while the rest were punished by the public"

The archived version of the post can be seen here.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim along with the video to be misleading. The video is of a recent fight between two groups in Delhi's Jahangirpuri area.

AFWA probe

Searching the Internet, we could not find any report of the accused in the Loni incident being attacked by the public.

We then conducted a reverse image search of keyframes from the video. Using appropriate keywords along with them, we came across the same video shared on June 13 by several Delhi-based local media outlets and reporters as an incident from Jahangirpuri.

Three persons were caught and beaten up by the residents. They allegedly came to extort money from a vegetable seller in Jahangirpuri. All three are belonging to betting gangs and money deal was also related to the same. Later, they were handed over to the police. pic.twitter.com/pAd2TDmbDN — alok singh (@AlokReporter) June 13, 2021

AFWA then contacted Inspector CP Bhardwaj of Jahangirpuri police station and shared the viral video with him.

"This incident took place in our jurisdiction. Three men from Wazirabad, who are into recovery business, came to Jahangirpuri and started threatening locals. They also entered some houses. This resulted in a clash between locals and them. We arrested eight people, including three recovery agents," Bhardwaj said.

India Today's Delhi bureau also confirmed that the video is of a brawl that broke out in Jahangirpuri.

The Loni case

The incident that took place at Loni in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad district was initially being shared with a communal spin. So far, nine people have been arrested for the assault.

advertisement

Police say the dispute was over selling of an amulet (tabeez) and the 72-year-old victim, Sufi Abdul Samad Saifi, was thrashed by people he knew personally - both Hindus and Muslims. The man's family, however, denies the police version.

Ghaziabad (Rural) SP Iraj Raja had said Saifi's complaint did not say he was forced to chant "Jai Shri Ram". The complaint was filed on June 7, two days after the incident. "After some days, a video of the incident, with no sound, was circulated on social media," Raza said.

After this, Saifi alleged in a video that his beard was chopped, and he was forced to chant "Jai Shri Ram". This video went viral.

Ghaziabad police have booked Twitter for failing to flag "manipulated media", and some journalists and politicians for trying to "provoke communal unrest". On Thursday, June 17, another complaint was filed in Delhi against actor Swara Bhaskar and some journalists for sharing the victim's version without verification.

However, it is clear that the video in question is of a brawl in Delhi's Jahanguri area and not related to the Loni incident.