A picture of bags of apples hanging from a fence is going viral on social media with the claim that it is common practice for the people of Norway to hang apples from their fences so that the poor, hungry and homeless can avail the fruits for free.

The post says, In Norway, people harvested their apples and hanged them in their respective fences so that the poor, the hungry, and the homeless avail fruits for free. Instead of letting apple waste. Sharing is caring. The post is captioned, What would you like to say about this habit of the rich people of Norway. (Thanks to friends).

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim with the viral image is misleading. It is not a countrywide practice but was done by a lady in Norway who gave away the surplus fruits from her apple orchard.

The archived version of the post can be seen here. The post is quite viral on Facebook.

What AFWA found

To verify the claim along with the viral image, we ran a reverse search and found that the picture was clicked in Norway in September 2018. Inger Garas, the house owner, had given away more than 200 bags of apples this way last year. We found an article published in local newspaper Drammens Tidende which substantiates the claim.

As per the report, Garas said, Just today, I hung out 30 bags with about a kilo of apples in each, and it was gone in an hour or two. There are so many apples this year. Nice, clean and large. I don’t get to use everything, and it becomes too much to throw away. It is much better to give them away.

Garas had hung the apple bags on her white fence every day for a week and this way distributed around 200 bags of apples of one kilo each. She told Drammens Tidende that she lives on a large property with several apple trees, some of which were planted in the early 1850s.

This particular claim went viral on social media earlier too, and it was debunked by fact-check website Snopes. Therefore, it is clear that it is not a common practice for the people of Norway to hang apples outside their fences for the poor, but was a one-off incident.

Also read: Fact Check: Morphed image of soccer stars goes viral with Pray for Gaza’ message

Also read: Fact Check: Rawalpindi school with high-tech attendance system passed off as Delhi's