A video of a man addressing a crowd and asking them to boycott Reliance and Patanjali products is circulating on social media. The man, whom netizens identify as the owner of Himalaya company, accuses Baba Ramdev of giving away the money earned to RSS to buy weapons against Muslims.

Angry social media users have asked for a boycott of Himalaya products in response.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the man in the video is advocate Bhanu Pratap Singh, who was addressing anti-CAA protesters in Delhi’s Mustafabad in January last year.

The archived versions of the viral posts are saved here and here.

AFWA investigation

A closer look at the video reveals anti-CAA and anti-NRC banners in abundance. The logo on the video is of “Times Express: Voice of Democracy” and the place mentioned is Delhi. Using these as clues, we found the longer version of the clip on the YouTube channel of “Times Express”.

The YouTube channel, which has 1.74 million subscribers, had uploaded the 12.11-minute video on January 25, 2020. According to the title and video description, this was advocate Bhanu Pratap Singh addressing protesters on CAA at Mustafabad in Delhi.

The viral portion of the speech can be found 3.23 minutes into the video.

Using keyword search, we found several news articles published on January 29, 2020, citing the same video clip. As per these articles, advocate Bhanu Pratap Singh, in his speech during anti-CAA protests in Delhi’s Mustafabad, called for an “economic jihad” against Baba Ramdev.

Searching the website of Himalaya, a multinational pharmaceutical company, we found that its founder-owner Mohammed Manal had died in 1986. None of the members from the present top management of Himalaya resemble the man in the viral video.

Therefore, it is clear that the man criticising Baba Ramdev and Patanjali in the clip is not the owner of Himalaya.

ALSO READ: Fact Check- Viral post falsely claims that state levies more tax on LPG cylinder than Centre

ALSO READ: Fact Check: Image of Kashmiri students pelting stones circulated with misleading claim