Israel and Hamas have agreed to a ceasefire, halting an 11-day war that has left several parts of Gaza in ruins.

However, people remain sceptical of longstanding peace in the region and netizens continue to debate on the conflict. Amid this, a picture of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg holding a placard saying “I stand with ISRAEL” is circulating on social media.

advertisement

Several netizens have hit out at Zuckerberg and threatened to uninstall Facebook. One Facebook user wrote, “Mark Zuckerberg, you are preventing the reality of your alleged country, which was built on the skulls of our children and is still seeking to kill us and displace us again, if you are brave, let the truth appear to the world.”

Here’s the archived version.

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral picture is morphed. The original picture shows Zuckerberg holding a note saying “THANKS!”

AWFA probe

Using Google reverse image search, we found the original picture on “internetactu.net”, with the caption, “Mark Zuckerberg says thank you!”

In the original picture, one can clearly see that instead of “I stand with ISRAEL”, the placard just says, “THANKS!”

We also found the original picture in another news article on “Tech Crunch” dated July 21, 2010, claiming that Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg made it official that Facebook had hit 500 million members.

We did not come across any news report of Zuckerberg commenting on the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict. Such a statement would have surely made news.

In fact, a report by “CBN News” dated May 18 says Facebook took down an Israeli prayer page after “radical Muslims targeted it with hate speech”. “The Jerusalem Prayer Team (JPT), established in 2002, with more than 75 million followers has been shut down by Facebook,” the report says.

On the other hand, another report by Rappler dated May 24 says Facebook’s average app store ratings have gone down on both iOS and Android due to downvoting by pro-Palestinian activists.

But it is clear that the viral picture of Zuckerberg holding a placard saying “I stand with ISRAEL” is morphed.

(Inputs by Sonali Khatta)