No sooner did Union Home minister Amit Shah move a proposal in Rajya Sabha on Monday to revoke Article 370 and Article 35A, messages offering land for sale in Jammu and Kashmir began circulating on social media.

The claim

Messages posted on WhatsApp and Facebook offered lands at prime locations in Srinagar like Lal Chowk at dirt cheap rates ranging from Rs 11-14 lakh.

advertisement

The fact

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) found these to be misleading claims.

Though the new development on principal allows any citizen of the country to buy property in J&K, but these advertisements posted on social media are hoaxes.

Hoax busted

One of the messages said, "Book your land at kashmir Laal chowk Rd from 11.25 Lacs with GST. Kashmir 370 removed. Limited stock! For more details call on 9019292918."

When we called up this number to verify, it turned out to be a customer care number of a Kolkata-based realty firm called "Eden Realty".

According to the company website, they have collaborated with the West Bengal government and worked on various developmental projects in the state.

A representative from Eden Realty confirmed to us that the viral message about sale of land in Srinagar is a hoax. "Somebody is playing a prank with us, we have informed this to the cyber cell of police. Please do not believe the viral message," said the company representative.

Facebook user Avinash Singh posted a similar message about availability of land near Srinagar's Lal Chowk and put out a contact number.

We found it to be the number of Avinash Singh himself. Singh, who claimed to be a BJP worker, said this was a joke, but also boasted that the day is not far when we would be able to buy land in J&K.

The truth

With revocation of the 1954 Presidential proclamation through the government Gazette notification, Article 35A now ceases to exist.

Article 35A is known as the Permanent Residents Law. It deprives the state's female residents of property rights if they marry an 'outsider' or somebody who is not a permanent resident of J&K.

Now after Article 35A is revoked and Kashmir's special status gone, anybody from anywhere in India will be able to buy property and settle permanently in J&K. Details about this can be read here.

But given the present law and order situation, high security deployment and several restrictions, it is practically unlikely for someone to buy land in Kashmir, immediately.

The conclusion

The viral messages about sale of land in Kashmir are hoaxes. After the abrogation of special status of J&K, people from any part of the country can now buy land in the state, legally.

However, due to the present volatile situation in the state, the new law might take some time to be implemented.