Spread the truth:

A disturbing video of a burning man running out of a building and shouting is viral on Social media claimed as a recent crime in Gonda, Uttar Pradesh.

“कुछ डरे हुए शान्तिदूत ” इमरान, रमज़ान निज़ामुद्दीन, ओर तुफैल ने मामूली विवाद मे विष्णु गोस्वामी को ज़िंदा जलाया , मौत # गोंडा अखलाख पर रोने वाले अब मोन कयु , या इंसान के लिए भी धर्म देखकर आवाज उठाई जाएगी । Note – वीडियो विचलित कर सकता है ।”

English Translation: “Few afraid peace messengers Imran, Ramzan, Nizamuddin and Tufail burnt Vishnu Goswami for a petty fight. Death #Gonda, Will anyone raise his voice who cried for Ekhlakh ?

Note: Video may disturb you”

Above tweet by @AkhileshThakurs till now had approx 2500 retweets

WhatsApp



Truth

The text along with the video is true. Victim Vishnu Goswami, a 22 year old man was burned who is in hospital now with 65% burns and the four accused, Imran, Ramzan, Nizamudeen and Tufail have been arrested.

But the disturbing video of the burning man is 9 years old i.e. 2010. As reported in media, the victim Kalpesh Mistry burnt himself in a Unjha Police Station, Gujarat because two journalists invoked him.

You can see the comparison of the screenshot from the now viral video, same colored car is parked.

Indian Express printed the story in Year 2010

“In his plea, Gujarat News cameraman-cum-photographer Mayur Rawal has stated that the FIR lodged against him on August 15 at the Unjha police station is false.

Rawal stated that he has been working with Gujarat News for the last four years and doing his job as per the rules. “The dispute was between the family — Kalpesh Mistry (the deceased) and his stepmother, Chandrika Mistry. The reporters have been dragged into it by the police,” states the anticipatory bail plea.

According to the police, Mayur has mentioned in the plea that they had made a video of the incident as they wanted to save him through this. “We had called the police and other people, but the fire spread too fast. We tried to reach him (Kalpesh), but could not.”

The plea adds: “To douse the fire, we had no other option except our cameras. Due to unbearable mental stress exerted by the police, Kalpesh committed suicide in their presence. We have taken the footage to support this. The incident was also recorded by Kamlesh Rawal, Vinod Rawal and Chandresh Parmar.” – Indian Express

SMHoaxSlayer was the first to find this video and reply to the query on May 17th 2019

News is true as per @AmarUjalaNews but the photo of burning man with fire is 6 years old. Screenshot taken from a video uploaded on YouTube in 2013 or before – https://t.co/cNy8qjCTXw — SM Hoax Slayer (@SMHoaxSlayer) May 17, 2019

Gonda Police messaged SMHoaxSlayer for the proof i.e. URL of the 2013 video and we obliged

Thanks for Validate the Truth. — Gonda Police (@gondapolice) May 18, 2019

Gonda Police also cleared that this unfortunate crime wasn’t because of any communal reasons

The earliest we could find was the video uploaded on YouTube in 2013. 25th March 2013

More Fakes

Many used the video only or it’s screenshot along with other photos

Archived

अखलाक पे रोने वाले भड़वों कहाँ मर गये

विष्णु गोस्वामी पर, जिसे ४ मुसलमानो ने पेट्रोल डालकर ज़िंदा जला दिया pic.twitter.com/xcDDpmArt2 — चौकीदार आयुष सारस्वत, Chowkidar Ayush Saraswat (@ayushsaraswat92) May 20, 2019

आप के राज में भी हिन्दुओं के साथ ये हो रहा है।

मैं जानता हूँ आप को इस घटना का पता चला ही होगा,परंतु आपका मौन बहुत कुछ कह रहा है।#up ke #gonda ki ghatna hai..

1 #hindu ladke #vishnuGoswami ko 4 #muslims ne jinda jala diya aur koi bhi media iska coverage nahi kar rahi hai.. pic.twitter.com/b8OZzwrhqK — abhijeet pathak (@Abhijee58522908) May 20, 2019

YouTube

Related