At a time when medical facilities are the need of the hour to battle the raging pandemic, a hospital in Kolkata has become a centre of controversy on social media.

Several Facebook users have posted two pictures of Trinamool Congress leader and Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim inaugurating a renovated Islamia Hospital. However, accusing the Mamata Banerjee government of minority appeasement, they claim that the “new” hospital inaugurated by Hakim will only cater to Muslims.

advertisement

India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the Islamia Hospital was set up in 1926, but was shut for the last five years as the building was in shambles. It was recently renovated for Covid patients, and anyone irrespective of caste or religion can seek treatment here.

Stir over nearly century-old hospital

From the headline and caption used in the viral image, we found that the news article was published on the website of Bengali daily “Anandabazaar Patrika” on May 30, 2021.

The report says on May 30, Hakim inaugurated a new building of the age-old Islamia Hospital for Covid treatment. The Kolkata mayor had also tweeted the event, saying, “Today we inaugurated the revamped Islamia Hospital on CR Avenue. With an ICU facility & Covid Beds, this facility will aid in the battle against #Covid19 for Kolkata #BengalFightsCorona”.

Today we inaugurated the revamped Islamia Hospital on CR Avenue

With an ICU facility & Covid Beds, this facility will aid in the battle against #Covid19 for Kolkata#BengalFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/hSXL9Nv1Iw — FIRHAD HAKIM (@FirhadHakim) May 30, 2021

On June 2, “The Telegraph” reported in detail about Islamia Hospital. According to this article, the hospital was set up in 1926. But since the building was in shambles, it had to be razed and the hospital was closed for five years. Hakim inaugurated the renovated building in which a 125-bed facility has been dedicated for Covid treatment.

“The Telegraph” spoke to Amiruddin, the general secretary of the hospital and member of the board of administrators of Kolkata Municipal Corporation. “Any Covid patient — irrespective of caste, religion or class — can seek treatment at the hospital,” he clarified.

The health centre has tied up with Charring Cross Nursing Home for doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff to run the newly opened Covid unit.

AFWA spoke Rahul Gadia, the owner of Charring Cross Nursing Home regarding the viral claim. “This is completely false. This hospital is open to any patient. We are not Muslims, and every staffer here is not a Muslim either. Any patient of any religion can seek treatment here,” Gadia said.

advertisement

While inaugurating the hospital, Hakim had said that the state government allocated Rs 3.75 crore for its renovation and treatment will be free to all patients.

However, as per reports, in 2012, a proposal to build a hospital exclusively for Muslims at Bhangar in South 24 Parganas was floated, but the government did not proceed following sharp criticism.

But the Facebook claim has been found to be misleading as the Islamia Hospital in Kolkata has been reopened not only for Muslims but for patients of any religion.